                            INFORMATION
                               SOURCE   TRANSMITTER                   RECEIVER   DESTINATION
                                                   SIGNAL     RECEIVED
                                                               SIGNAL
                                    MESSAGE                                  MESSAGE
                                                          NOISE
                                                         SOURCE
                                     Fig. 1—Schematic diagram of a general communication system.
                  a decimal digit is about 31 bits. A digit wheel on a desk computing machine has ten stable positions and
                                      3
                  thereforehasastoragecapacityofonedecimaldigit. Inanalyticalworkwhereintegrationanddifferentiation
                  are involved the base e is sometimes useful. The resulting units of information will be called natural units.
                  Changefromthebaseatobasebmerelyrequiresmultiplicationby logba.
                     By a communication system we will mean a system of the type indicated schematically in Fig. 1. It
                  consists of essentially ﬁve parts:
                     1. Aninformationsourcewhichproducesamessageorsequenceofmessagestobecommunicatedtothe
                       receiving terminal. The message may be of various types: (a) A sequence of letters as in a telegraph
                       of teletype system; (b) A single function of time f(t) as in radio or telephony; (c) A function of
                       time and other variables as in black and white television — here the message may be thought of as a
                       function f(x;y;t) of two space coordinates and time, the light intensity at point (x;y) and time t on a
                       pickup tube plate; (d) Two or more functions of time, say f(t), g(t), h(t) — this is the case in “three-
                       dimensional”soundtransmissionorif the system is intended to service several individual channels in
                       multiplex;(e)Severalfunctionsofseveralvariables—incolortelevisionthemessageconsistsofthree
                       functions f(x;y;t), g(x;y;t), h(x;y;t) deﬁned in a three-dimensional continuum — we may also think
                       of these three functions as components of a vector ﬁeld deﬁned in the region — similarly, several
                       black and white television sources would produce “messages” consisting of a number of functions
                       of three variables; (f) Various combinations also occur, for example in television with an associated
                       audio channel.
                     2. A transmitter which operates on the message in some way to produce a signal suitable for trans-
                       mission over the channel. In telephony this operation consists merely of changing sound pressure
                       into a proportional electrical current. In telegraphy we have an encoding operation which produces
                       a sequence of dots, dashes and spaces on the channel corresponding to the message. In a multiplex
                       PCMsystem the different speech functions must be sampled, compressed, quantized and encoded,
                       and ﬁnally interleaved properly to construct the signal. Vocoder systems, television and frequency
                       modulationare other examples of complex operationsapplied to the message to obtain the signal.
                     3. The channel is merely the medium used to transmit the signal from transmitter to receiver. It may be
                       a pair of wires, a coaxial cable, a band of radio frequencies, a beam of light, etc.
                     4. The receiver ordinarily performs the inverse operation of that done by the transmitter, reconstructing
                       the message from the signal.
                     5. Thedestination is the person (or thing) for whom the message is intended.
                     Wewish to consider certain general problems involving communication systems. To do this it is ﬁrst
                  necessary to represent the various elements involved as mathematical entities, suitably idealized from their
                                                           2
