558

1000

aor Yu 1-Sector Lesion
2-Sector Lesion

600+ BRSY 3-Sector Lesion

MEAN TRIALS (AND ERRORS) TO RELEARN POSTOP

400+
MEAN TRIALS
TO RELEARN
200/- PREOP
(8) —_ i iB — im nee oT
r tM iL LM IM
(N: (4) (4)3) (3) (3) (3) (3)

Figure 18.4 Postoperative retention on the landmark task after bilateral lesions of one,
two, or three posterior parietal sectors, illustrated in Figure 18.3. Bars indicate mean trials
to criterion; circles within bars indicate mean errors. N in this and following figures
equals number of monkey in group. Mean number of trials to relearn task before opera-
tion (dashed line) is based on scores on a two-week retention test given just prior to
surgery and represents the data from all 23 monkeys. The results showed no significant
differences among the groups given a one-sector lesion, or among the groups given a
two-sector lesion. However, as the number of sectors included in the posterior parietal
lesion increased, so did the severity of the impairment. (Source: Mishkin et al., in prep.).

tical connections between the intact striate and parietal areas. This
suggested that the interaction between the striate and parietal cortex via
uncrossed connections had been of considerable importance for per-
formance. However, whether such interaction was mediated by a cor-
ticocortical pathway could only be determined by examining the effects
of the third stage of operation, transection of the corpus callosum.

In this operation, the posterior half of the callosum was transected,
thereby cortically disconnecting the intact striate and posterior parietal
areas. As shown by the postoperative retention score in part D of figure
18.5, the effect of the transection was to produce a partial reinstatement
of the impairment. We can infer from these results that performance on
the landmark task had indeed been mediated via corticocortical path-
ways between the striate and parietal areas.

However, the disruption of landmark discrimination that followed
this lesion was not complete; all monkeys successfully relearned the
task. At this point, the question was whether recovery of the discrimi-
nation was mediated by the interaction of the intact posterior parietal
cortex with subcortical visual structures or by the interaction of the in-
tact striate cortex with other cortical areas. In subsequent work on this
preparation we found that removal of the remaining posterior parietal
cortex was completely without effect, which indicated that tectofugal

Ungerleider, Mishkin

