550

By contrast, in the present formulation, corticocortical connections
originating in the striate area are viewed as mediating both types of
vision, with two diverging cortical systems replacing the genic-
ulostriate-tectofugal dichotomy. The reasons for stressing cortico-
cortical mechanisms for both types of visual perception in primates
are developed below, but this emphasis is not meant to deny that the
tectofugal system (including the tectofugal pathway to cortex) contrib-
utes to spatial vision, particularly to its visuomotor aspects; it is simply
that, with regard to the perceptual aspects of spatial vision, the tec-
tofugal system in the primate appears to play a subsidiary role. In our
investigations of the two cortical visual systems, we have used the
rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) as our subject and have employed a
combination of behavioral, electrophysiological, and anatomical
techniques.

Occipitotemporal Mechanisms in Object Perception

The results of numerous behavioral studies have demonstrated that
bilateral removal of inferior temporal cortex in monkeys produces a se-
vere impairment in visual-discrimination performance (for reviews see
Gross 1973; Dean 1976; Wilson 1978). In brief, inferior temporal lesions
produce a deficit that is exclusively visual, affecting both the retention
of discriminations acquired prior to surgery and the postoperative ac-
quisition of new discriminations. Among the deficits that have been
reported are those involving hue, brightness, two-dimensional pat-
terns, and three-dimensional shapes. More recent work has shown that
damage to the posterior part of the inferior temporal cortex (area TEO)
interferes mainly with discriminative ability, whereas damage to the
anterior part (area TE) affects primarily visual memory (Iwai and Mish-
kin 1968; Cowey and Gross 1970).

The pathway through which inferior temporal cortex receives visual
information was first suggested on the basis of early neuronographic
data (von Bonin et al. 1942). It had been shown in both the monkey and
chimpanzee that if strychnine is applied to the striate cortex spike dis-
charges can be recorded from a prestriate cortical belt, whereas if
strychnine is applied to any part of this prestriate region spikes can be
recorded in the inferior part of the temporal lobe. These neurono-
graphic findings were later confirmed in a neuroanatomical study
(Kuypers et al. 1965) that employed the Nauta-Gygax (1954) technique
for tracing projections by the silver-staining of degenerating axons after
removal of their cell bodies. As anticipated, it was found that striate
cortex projects to a prestriate cortical belt, which, in turn, projects to the
inferior temporal area. It was also confirmed that each prestriate area
projects across the splenium of the corpus callosum to reach the pre-
striate area of the opposite hemisphere.

These neuronographic and neuroanatomical findings are sche-

Ungerleider, Mishkin
