569

in figure 18.12. The lateral lesion involved the lateral surface of area 17
only, with no invasion of area 18; the posterior lesion included the lat-
eral and medial banks of the vertical limbs of the calcarine fissure, again
with no invasion of area 18; and the medial striate lesion involved the
tissue within the stem of the calcarine fissure, in this case with slight
damage to area 18 around the lips of the fissure. According to the eiec-
trophysiological map of Daniel and Whitteridge (1961), these three sec-
tors of striate cortex correspond to the central 7° of the contralateral
visual field, to the field between 7° and 22° from fixation, and to eccen-
tricities greater than 22° from fixation, respectively (see figure 18.13).
Thus, it was anticipated that not only would the entire striate-prestriate
projection system emerge from the data on this series of monkeys, but
the general visuotopic organization of the system would be apparent as
well.

To verify the degeneration results, and also to investigate the details
of the visuotopic organization, a second series of monkeys were pre-
pared with injections of radioactively labeled amino acids into selected
sites in striate cortex, and the brains processed for autoradiography. A
summary of the injection sites is shown in figure 18.14. These loci cor-
respond to positions in the visual field ranging from less than 12° from
fixation (site number 1 on the lateral surface) to greater than 45° from
fixation (site number 10 in the stem of the calcarine fissure). The loci
injected included representations of both the upper and the lower vi-
sual fields.

The results from both sets of experiments, degeneration and auto-
radiographic, indicated that all parts of striate cortex project to three
separate visual areas within prestriate cortex (Ungerleider and Mishkin
1979a): The first is a circumstriate cortical belt surrounding area 17 at
the 17-18 border, the second is located along the caudal portion of the
superior temporal sulcus, and the third is buried deep within the caudal
part of the intraparietal sulcus. Each of these three projection areas will
be described in turn.

Within the first projection area—the circumstriate cortical belt—the
representations of the upper and lower visual fields are entirely sepa-
rate (figure 18.15). The topographic organization of these separate rep-
resentations is illustrated in figure 18.16. Progression from central to
peripheral to far peripheral vision is represented in the lower field bya
progression into the posterior bank and depth of the lunate sulcus, me-
dially along the surface of the buried annectent gyrus into the parieto-
occipital incisure, and then rostrally along the upper lip of the calcarine
fissure; and in the upper field by a progression into the inferior occipi-
tal sulcus, ventromedially into the occipitotemporal and collateral sulci,
and then rostrally along the lower lip of the calcarine fissure. The total
extent of this projection field corresponds remarkably closely to area OB
of von Bonin and Bailey (1947); indeed, the two may be equivalent.
Moreover, the autoradiographic evidence indicates that whereas the

Two Cortical Visual Systems
