Normal

100 ; Bilateral Fields

£ ZZZZ Contralateral Fields

2 - (___] Ipsilateral Fietds

E AW Side recorded from

a

a

3

cc

ae —— Inferior Temporal Cortex

Prestriate Cortex
Striate Cortex
B Cc D

Ore
ae
I

Bilat. Striate Unilat. Striate Unilat. Striate Split

; [ a |
0 1 pt a 1 1 L n \ Lt 1 |
B Cc I B Cc l B c | B Cc I

Figure 18.2 Proportion of inferior temporal neurons that had bilateral, contralateral, or ipsilateral receptive
fields in (A) normal monkeys, (B) monkeys with bilateral removal of striate cortex, (C, D) monkeys with
unilateral removal of striate cortex, and (E) monkeys with transection of the forebrain commissures. The
brain diagrams show how information from the right (R) and left (L) visual hemifields could reach inferior
temporal cortex along a corticocortical route and how each lesion (in black) interferes with this pathway.
Adapted from Rocha-Miranda et al. 1975.

% Receptive
Fields

tralateral hemifield. Thus, the dependence of inferior temporal cortex
on corticocortical connections arising in striate cortex has now been
made evident at the single-cell level.

Most recently, this entire visual pathway was functionally mapped
using '*C-labeled 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) via the method developed by
Sokoloff and his colleagues (Kennedy et al. 1975). In this technique
2-DG is used as a marker of local cerebral glucose utilization and hence
indicates regions that are metabolically active during the experimental
procedure. The visual-mapping studies (Jarvis et al. 1978; Kennedy et
al. 1978) were carried out in awake monkeys previously prepared witha
unilateral optic-tract section combined with transection of the forebrain
commissures (a procedure that visually deafferented one hemisphere
while leaving the other intact). On the day of the experiment, the mon-
keys were presented with visual patterns in a rotating drum or ina
discrimination apparatus. In both situations, reduced glucose utiliza-
tion in the blind as compared with the seeing hemisphere was seen

553 Two Cortical Visual Systems
