552

one of each pair in the series intact, and it can often be shown that up to
this point little or no loss in function occurs. However, if the connec-
tions between the two hemispheres are then cut, the functions served
by the stations beyond the cut may be lost. This demonstrates that the
function in question depends not only on the stations themselves, but
also on the connections between them. The same demonstration the-
oretically could have been achieved by cutting the fiber connections
between the stations within each hemisphere, but the complexity of
these connections is so great, and they form such a compact network,
that the method is technically difficult if not impossible.

In the disconnection study referred to above it was found that if an
inferotemporal lesion in one hemisphere was combined serially with
total striate removal in the other, animals continued to perform a
pattern-discrimination task; however, when these asymmetrical or
crossed lesions were followed by transection of the corpus callosum, the
performance of the animals fell to chance and they failed to relearn the
task. Presumably, the single crossed pathway from the intact striate
cortex on one side across the corpus callosum to the intact inferior
temporal cortex on the other side is sufficient to mediate pattern-
discrimination habits, but if this pathway is cut a severe deficit results.
This study thus provided the first behavioral indication that inferior
temporal cortex is a late station along a cortical visual pathway running
from striate through prestriate cortex.

Electrophysiological experiments (Gross et al. 1972) subsequently re-
vealed that single neurons in inferior temporal cortex, like those in
striate (Hubel and Wiesel 1968) and prestriate (Hubel and Wiesel 1970)
cortex, have visual receptive fields. The optimal trigger features for in-
ferior temporal neurons, however, are considerably more complex. That
visual input to these neurons originates in striate cortex was shown ina
combined recording and ablation study by Rocha-Miranda et al. (1975).
The method entailed measuring the defect in the visual receptive fields
of inferior temporal neurons after selective cerebral lesions or commis-
sural transections. As predicted from earlier ablation studies (Mishkin
1972), the tectofugal pathway from the superior colliculus through the
pulvinar to cortex turned out to be unimportant for the receptive field
properties of inferior temporal neurons. By contrast, the cortical path-
way from striate through prestriate to inferior temporal cortex proved to
be essential, since interruption of this pathway by a striate removal
or by transection of the forebrain commissures eliminated the corre-
sponding visual input to inferior temporal cells. The results, shown in
figure 18.2, indicate that normally over 60% of inferior temporal
neurons have bilateral receptive fields. However, after bilateral striate-
cortex removal these neurons are totally unresponsive to visual stimu-
lation, after unilateral striate-cortex removal they respond to visual
stimulation only in the hemifield opposite the intact striate cortex, and
after commissurotomy they respond to stimulation only in the con-

Ungerleider, Mishkin
