573

Figure 18.15 Photomicrographs exemplifying autoradiographic results after injections of
striate cortex. The bright-field photomicrograph on the left shows an injection (marked by
arrows) involving both the dorsal and ventral banks of the calcarine fissure (see figure
18.14, injection site 10). In the dark-field photomicrograph on the right, labeling is seen in
two prestriate loci, marked by arrows: dorsally in the medial parieto-occipital fissure and
ventrally in the ventral bank of the calcarine fissure. The patchy pattern of label, especially
apparent in the ventral locus, is typical of striate projections to the circumstriate cortical
belt. Adapted from Ungerleider and Mishkin 1979a.

as shown on the three selected cross sections. Progression from central
to peripheral to far-peripheral vision is represented by a progression
down the posterior bank of the superior temporal sulcus and up along
the lower and then the upper part of the sulcal floor. Figure 18.18 sum-
marizes this topographic arrangement. The finding that the floor of the
superior temporal sulcus receives a direct projection from posterior and
medial striate cortex provides an answer to one of the anatomical ques-
tions posed in the preceding section (see figure 18.11). As yet, however,
we do not have an answer to the second question raised there, except
the confirmation that the immediate source of the occipital projections
to ventral area TEO is not the striate cortex.

The third area that receives direct striate-cortex projections is also
located within cytoarchitectonic area OA, in the depth of the most
caudal portion of the intraparietal sulcus. A cross-section through the
projection shows that it is buried in the foot-shaped part of the sulcus
beneath its lateral bank (figure 18.19). This projection field is by far the
smallest of the three; its total rostral-caudal length extends only about 2
mm. There is no discernible topographic representation of the visual
field within this area, for after a lesion or an injection involving any part
of striate cortex a projection is always seen in the same part of the sul-
cus. Thus, although the dark-field photomicrograph in figure 18.19
shows degeneration in the foot of the intraparietal sulcus after a medial
striate lesion, the very same picture could as well represent the projec-
tions of either posterior or lateral striate cortex. Indeed, the first evi-
dence of direct striate projections to this area came from studies that

Two Cortical Visual Systems
