                     This framework can yield speciﬁc training algorithms for many kinds of model and optimization
                     algorithm. In this article, we explore the special case when the generative model generates samples
                     by passing random noise through a multilayer perceptron, and the discriminative model is also a
                     multilayer perceptron. We refer to this special case as adversarial nets. In this case, we can train
                     both models using only the highly successful backpropagation and dropout algorithms [17] and
                     sample from the generative model using only forward propagation. No approximate inference or
                     Markovchains are necessary.
                     2   Related work
                     An alternative to directed graphical models with latent variables are undirected graphical models
                     with latent variables, such as restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs) [27, 16], deep Boltzmann
                     machines (DBMs) [26] and their numerous variants. The interactions within such models are
                     represented as the product of unnormalized potential functions, normalized by a global summa-
                     tion/integration over all states of the random variables. This quantity (the partition function) and
                     its gradient are intractable for all but the most trivial instances, although they can be estimated by
                     Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. Mixing poses a signiﬁcant problem for learning
                     algorithms that rely on MCMC [3, 5].
                     Deep belief networks (DBNs) [16] are hybrid models containing a single undirected layer and sev-
                     eral directed layers. While a fast approximate layer-wise training criterion exists, DBNs incur the
                     computational difﬁculties associated with both undirected and directed models.
                     Alternative criteria that do not approximate or bound the log-likelihood have also been proposed,
                     such as score matching [18] and noise-contrastive estimation (NCE) [13]. Both of these require the
                     learned probability density to be analytically speciﬁed up to a normalization constant. Note that
                     in many interesting generative models with several layers of latent variables (such as DBNs and
                     DBMs),it is not even possible to derive a tractable unnormalized probability density. Some models
                     such as denoising auto-encoders [30] and contractive autoencoders have learning rules very similar
                     to score matching applied to RBMs. In NCE, as in this work, a discriminative training criterion is
                     employedtoﬁtagenerativemodel. However,ratherthanﬁttingaseparatediscriminativemodel, the
                     generativemodelitselfisusedtodiscriminategenerateddatafromsamplesaﬁxednoisedistribution.
                     BecauseNCEusesaﬁxednoisedistribution,learningslowsdramaticallyafterthemodelhaslearned
                     even an approximately correct distribution over a small subset of the observed variables.
                     Finally, some techniques do not involve deﬁning a probability distribution explicitly, but rather train
                     agenerativemachinetodrawsamplesfromthedesireddistribution. Thisapproachhastheadvantage
                     that such machinescanbedesignedtobetrainedbyback-propagation. Prominentrecentworkinthis
                     area includes the generative stochastic network (GSN) framework [5], which extends generalized
                     denoising auto-encoders [4]: both can be seen as deﬁning a parameterized Markov chain, i.e., one
                     learns the parameters of a machine that performs one step of a generative Markov chain. Compared
                     to GSNs, the adversarial nets framework does not require a Markov chain for sampling. Because
                     adversarial nets do not require feedback loops during generation, they are better able to leverage
                     piecewise linear units [19, 9, 10], which improve the performance of backpropagation but have
                     problemswithunboundedactivationwhenusedinafeedbackloop. Morerecentexamplesoftraining
                     a generative machine by back-propagating into it include recent work on auto-encoding variational
                     Bayes [20] and stochastic backpropagation [24].
                     3   Adversarial nets
                     The adversarial modeling framework is most straightforward to apply when the models are both
                     multilayer perceptrons. To learn the generator’s distribution p over data x, we deﬁne a prior on
                                                                     g
                     input noise variables p (z), then represent a mapping to data space as G(z;θ ), where G is a
                                       z                                           g
                     differentiable function represented by a multilayer perceptron with parameters θ . We also deﬁne a
                                                                                  g
                     second multilayer perceptron D(x;θ ) that outputs a single scalar. D(x) represents the probability
                                                 d
                     that x came from the data rather than p . We train D to maximize the probability of assigning the
                                                   g
                     correct label to both training examples and samples from G. We simultaneously train G to minimize
                     log(1 −D(G(z))):
                                                           2
