                                                   t = 0               t = 5000            t = 10000
                  Figure 4: Visualization of the state of the non-interacting automaton of size 100 over time.
                      The maximum values of complexity appear to increase linearly as the automaton size increases
                  (Figure 7). That is, maximum complexity is proportional to the side length of the two-dimensional
                  state array. This result is expected, since the automaton begins in a state which is symmetric along
                  its vertical axis, and complexity presumably develops along a single dimension of the automaton.
                  The time that it takes for the automaton to reach its complexity maximum appears to increase
                  quadratically with the automatonsize, or proportionally to the number of particles in the automaton
                                                                                               2
                  (Figure 8).      This result is also expected, since the time for n            particles to reach a particular
                                                          2
                  conﬁguration is proportional to n .
                  6     Adujsted Coarse-Graining Experiment
                  6.1     Method
                  Though the original coarse-graining approach produces the hypothesized complexity pattern, the
                  method of thresholding used in the previous experiment—dividing the ﬂoating-point values into
                  three buckets—has the potential to introduce artiﬁcial complexity.                  Consider, for example, an
                  automaton state for which the coarse-grained array is a smooth gradient from 0 to 1. By deﬁnition,
                  there will be some row of the array which lies on the border between two threshold values. Tiny
                  ﬂuctuations in the values of the coarse-grained array may cause the cells in this row to ﬂuctuate
                  between two threshold values. In such a case, the small ﬂuctuations in this border row would
                  artiﬁcially increase the measured complexity of the coarse-grained array.                This case is illustrated
                  in Figure 9.
                      We propose an adjustment to the coarse-graining algorithm that helps to minimize these ar-
                  tifacts.   First, we use a larger number of thresholds—seven, in contrast to the three used in the
                  original experiment. Additionally, we allow each cell in the array to be optionally, independently
                  adjusted up or down by one threshold, in whatever manner achieves the smallest possible ﬁle size
                  for the coarse-grained array.
                      This adjustment helps to compensate for the thresholding artifacts–such random ﬂuctuations
                                                                           14
