are common to both stimuli, Po the proportion of those elements
responding to one stimulus which also respond to the second, is

therefore equal to 0.5.

If the stimulus Sy is presented, the subsets Ay 1 and

Alo (including Ay 2.1? Ay 2.2? AD ,2) will be activated and impulses
will be transmitted to both Responses 1 and 2, Since the entire
system is constituted to yield a "flip-flop" effect, however, one or
the other response will prevail, and will suppress the association
sets which do not contribute to its own excitation. Thus, if the

Ay 9 set happens to have a greater mean (or net) value than the set
Ay ? Response No. 2 will become dominant, and Response No. 1 will be
suppressed, This will lead almost immediately to a condition in which
only the subsct Ayo (inelLuding Ay 2.2? Ay 12? and Ay 2.1,2) remains
active, all others being suppressed. For as long as this condition

continues, the elements of this subset will accumulate an increment to

their value, while the elements of the suppressed subsets will remain
unchanged, Thus, the next time the same stimulus (S,) is presented,

that subset of association units (A which is excited by this

1.2)

stimulus and tends to evoke R, will probably have a mean value greater

than that of the association system as a whole, due to its selective

"reinforcement" on the previous presentation. The same response, Ros
will, therefore, have a greater probability of occurring again, The

system has thus learned to associate the stimulus S, to R,, and it

1 2?
will tend to fix that connection more firmly on each successive trial,

If a different stimulus, Sos is then presented, it will
tend to pick up some of the same A-units as Sy -< specifically, those

units in the common set, AY 2.19 and A Hence, part of the value
3 e

1,2.2°
increase which was gained by the set A, 9 will carry over to the set

Ay 93 creating a slight bias towards Response No. 2. Thus, the overlap,
or communality, between the two sets, leads to a statistical interaction

between the associations formed, which may occasionally cause errors in

-1))-
