
=== Page 1 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                                   Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001. 24:167–202
                                                                              c
                                                                       Copyright 
 2001 by Annual Reviews. All rights reserved
                            ANINTEGRATIVETHEORYOFPREFRONTAL
                            CORTEXFUNCTION
                                  Earl K. Miller
                                  Center for Learning and Memory, RIKEN-MIT Neuroscience Research Center and
                                  Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
                                  Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139; e-mail: ekm@ai.mit.edu
                                  Jonathan D. Cohen
                                  Center for the Study of Brain, Mind, and Behavior and Department of Psychology,
                                  Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544; e-mail: jdc@princeton.edu
                                  KeyWords frontallobes,cognition, executive control, working memory, attention
                                  n Abstract Theprefrontalcortexhaslongbeensuspectedtoplayanimportantrole
                                  in cognitive control, in the ability to orchestrate thought and action in accordance with
                                  internal goals. Its neural basis, however, has remained a mystery. Here, we propose
                                  that cognitive control stems from the active maintenance of patterns of activity in the
                                  prefrontal cortex that represent goals and the means to achieve them. They provide
                                  bias signals to other brain structures whose net effect is to guide the ﬂow of activity
                                  along neural pathways that establish the proper mappings between inputs, internal
                                  states, and outputs needed to perform a given task. We review neurophysiological,
                                  neurobiological, neuroimaging, andcomputationalstudiesthatsupportthistheoryand
                                  discuss its implications as well as further issues to be addressed.
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.INTRODUCTION
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgOneofthefundamentalmysteriesofneuroscienceishowcoordinated,purposeful
                                  behavior arises from the distributed activity of billions of neurons in the brain.
                                  Simple behaviors can rely on relatively straightforward interactions between the
                                  brain’s input and output systems. Animals with fewer than a hundred thousand
                                  neurons (in the human brain there are 100 billion or more neurons) can approach
                                  food and avoid predators. For animals with larger brains, behavior is more ﬂex-
                                  ible. But ﬂexibility carries a cost: Although our elaborate sensory and motor
                                  systems provide detailed information about the external world and make avail-
                                  able a large repertoire of actions, this introduces greater potential for interference
                                  and confusion. The richer information we have about the world and the greater
                                  number of options for behavior require appropriate attentional, decision-making,
                                  andcoordinative functions, lest uncertainty prevail. To deal with this multitude of
                            0147-006X/01/0301-0167$14.00                                                  167

=== Page 2 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           168     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 possibilities andtocurtailconfusion,wehaveevolvedmechanismsthatcoordinate
                                 lower-level sensory and motor processes along a common theme, an internal goal.
                                 This ability for cognitive control no doubt involves neural circuitry that extends
                                 over much of the brain, but it is commonly held that the prefrontal cortex (PFC)
                                 is particularly important.
                                   The PFC is the neocortical region that is most elaborated in primates, animals
                                 knownfor their diverse and ﬂexible behavioral repertoire. It is well positioned to
                                 coordinate a wide range of neural processes: The PFC is a collection of intercon-
                                 nected neocortical areas that sends and receives projections from virtually all cor-
                                 tical sensory systems, motor systems, and many subcortical structures (Figure 1).
                                 Neurophysiological studies in nonhuman primates have begun to deﬁne many of
                                 the detailed properties of PFC, and human neuropsychology and neuroimaging
                                 studies have begun to provide a broad view of the task conditions under which
                                 it is engaged. However, an understanding of the mechanisms by which the PFC
                                 executescontrolhasremainedelusive.Theaimofthisarticleistodescribeatheory
                                 of PFC function that integrates these diverse ﬁndings, and more precisely deﬁnes
                                 its role in cognitive control.
                           TheRoleofthePFCinTop-DownControlofBehavior
                                 The PFC is not critical for performing simple, automatic behaviors, such as our
                                 tendency to automatically orient to an unexpected sound or movement. These
                                 behaviors can be innate or they can develop gradually with experience as learning
                                 mechanisms potentiate existing pathways or form new ones. These “hardwired”
                                 pathways are advantageous because they allow highly familiar behaviors to be
                                 executed quickly and automatically (i.e. without demanding attention). How-
                                 ever, these behaviors are inﬂexible, stereotyped reactions elicited by just the right
                                 stimulus. They do not generalize well to novel situations, and they take extensive
                                 timeandexperiencetodevelop.Thesesortsofautomaticbehaviorscanbethought
                                 of as relying primarily on “bottom-up” processing; that is, they are determined
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.largely by the nature of the sensory stimuli and well-established neural pathways
                                 that connect these with corresponding responses.
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgBycontrast,thePFCisimportantwhen“top-down”processingisneeded;thatis,
                                 whenbehaviormustbeguidedbyinternalstatesorintentions. ThePFCiscriticalin
                                 situations whenthemappingsbetweensensoryinputs,thoughts,andactionseither
                                 areweaklyestablishedrelativetootherexistingonesorarerapidlychanging. This
                                 is when we need to use the “rules of the game,” internal representations of goals
                                 and the means to achieve them. Several investigators have argued that this is a
                                 cardinal function of the PFC (Cohen & Servan-Schreiber 1992, Passingham1993,
                                 Grafman 1994, Wise et al 1996, Miller 1999). Two classic tasks illustrate this
                                 point: the Stroop task and the Wisconsin card sort task (WCST).
                                   In the Stroop task (Stroop 1935, MacLeod 1991), subjects either read words
                                 or name the color in which they are written. To perform this task, subjects must
                                 selectively attend to one attribute. This is especially so when naming the color

=== Page 3 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           169
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.org
                                  Figure 1 Schematic diagram of some of the extrinsic and intrinsic connections of the
                                  prefrontal cortex. The partial convergence of inputs from many brain systems and internal
                                  connectionsoftheprefrontalcortex(PFC)mayallowittoplayacentralroleinthesynthesis
                                  of diverse information needed for complex behavior. Most connections are reciprocal; the
                                  exceptionsareindicatedbyarrows.Thefrontaleyeﬁeld(FEF)hasvariouslybeenconsidered
                                  either adjacent to, or part of, the PFC. Here, we compromise by depicting it as adjacent to,
                                  yet touching, the PFC.

=== Page 4 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           170     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 of a conﬂict stimulus (e.g. the word GREEN displayed in red), because there is
                                 a strong prepotent tendency to read the word (“green”), which competes with the
                                 response to the color (“red”). This illustrates one of the most fundamental aspects
                                 of cognitive control and goal-directed behavior: the ability to select a weaker,
                                 task-relevant response (or source of information) in the face of competition from
                                 an otherwise stronger, but task-irrelevant one. Patients with frontal impairment
                                 have difﬁculty with this task (e.g. Perrett 1974, Cohen & Servan-Schreiber 1992,
                                 Vendrell et al 1995), especially when the instructions vary frequently (Dunbar &
                                 Sussman1995,Cohenetal1999),whichsuggeststhattheyhavedifﬁcultyadhering
                                 to the goal of the task or its rules in the face of a competing stronger (i.e. more
                                 salient or habitual) response.
                                   Similar ﬁndings are evident in the WCST. Subjects are instructed to sort cards
                                 according to the shape, color, or number of symbols appearing on them and the
                                 sortingrulevariesperiodically. Thus,anygivencardcanbeassociatedwithseveral
                                 possible actions, no single stimulus-response mapping will work, and the correct
                                 onechangesandisdictatedbywhicheverruleiscurrentlyineffect. Humanswith
                                 PFC damage show stereotyped deﬁcits in the WCST. They are able to acquire
                                 the initial mapping without much difﬁculty but are unable to adapt their behavior
                                 whentherulevaries(Milner1963). MonkeyswithPFClesionsareimpairedinan
                                 analog of this task (Dias et al 1996b, 1997) and in others when they must switch
                                 between different rules (Rossi et al 1999).
                                   The Stroop task and WCST are variously described as tapping the cognitive
                                 functions of either selective attention, behavioral inhibition, working memory,
                                 or rule-based or goal-directed behavior. In this article, we argue that all these
                                 functions depend on the representation of goals and rules in the form of patterns
                                 of activity in the PFC, which conﬁgure processing in other parts of the brain in
                                 accordance with current task demands. These top-down signals favor weak (but
                                 task-relevant)stimulus-responsemappingswhentheyareincompetitionwithmore
                                 habitual, stronger ones (such as in the Stroop task), especially when ﬂexibility is
                                 needed(suchasintheWCST).Webelievethatthiscanaccountforthewiderange
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.of other tasks found to be sensitive to PFC damage, such as A-not-B (Piaget 1954,
                                 Diamond&Goldman-Rakic1989),TowerofLondon(Shallice1982,1988;Owen
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orget al 1990), and others (Duncan 1986, Duncan et al 1996), Stuss & Benson 1986).
                                   Webuild on the fundamental principle that processing in the brain is compet-
                                 itive: Different pathways, carrying different sources of information, compete for
                                 expressioninbehavior,andthewinnersarethosewiththestrongestsourcesofsup-
                                 port. Desimone & Duncan (1995) have proposed a model that clearly articulates
                                 suchaviewwithregardtovisualattention. Theseauthorsassumethatvisualcorti-
                                 calneuronsprocessingdifferentaspectsofascenecompetewitheachotherviamu-
                                 tually inhibitory interactions. The neurons that “win” the competition and remain
                                 active reach higher levels of activity than those with which they share inhibitory
                                 interactions. Voluntary shifts of attention result from the inﬂuence of excitatory
                                 top-downsignalsrepresentingtheto-be-attendedfeaturesofthescene. Thesebias
                                 the competition among neurons representing the scene, increasing the activity of

=== Page 5 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           171
                                  neurons representing the to-be-attended features and, by virtue of mutual inhi-
                                  bition, suppressing activity of neurons processing other features. Desimone &
                                  Duncan suggest that the PFC is an important source of such top-down biasing.
                                  However, they left unspeciﬁed the mechanisms by which this occurs. That is the
                                  focus of this article.
                                    Webeginbyoutliningatheorythatextendsthenotionofbiasedcompetitionand
                                  proposesthatitprovidesafundamentalmechanismbywhichthePFCexertscontrol
                                  overawiderangeofprocessesintheserviceofgoal-directedbehavior. Wedescribe
                                  the minimal set of functional properties that such a system must exhibit if it can
                                  serve as a mechanism of cognitive control. We then review the existing literature
                                  that provides support for this set of properties, followed by a discussion of recent
                                  computational modeling efforts that illustrate how a system with these properties
                                  can support elementary forms of control. Finally, we consider unresolved issues
                                  that provide a challenge for future empirical and theoretical research.
                            OverviewoftheTheory
                                  WeassumethatthePFCservesaspeciﬁcfunctionincognitivecontrol: theactive
                                  maintenance of patterns of activity that represent goals and the means to achieve
                                  them. Theyprovidebiassignalsthroughoutmuchoftherestofthebrain,affecting
                                  not only visual processes but also other sensory modalities, as well as systems
                                  responsible for response execution, memory retrieval, emotional evaluation, etc.
                                  The aggregate effect of these bias signals is to guide the ﬂow of neural activity
                                  alongpathwaysthatestablishthepropermappingsbetweeninputs,internalstates,
                                  andoutputsneededtoperformagiventask. Thisisespeciallyimportantwhenever
                                  stimuli are ambiguous (i.e. they activate more than one input representation),
                                  or when multiple responses are possible and the task-appropriate response must
                                  competewithstrongeralternatives. Fromthisperspective,theconstellationofPFC
                                  biases—which resolves competition, guides activity along appropriate pathways,
                                  and establishes the mappings needed to perform the task—can be viewed as the
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.neural implementation of attentional templates, rules, or goals, depending on the
                                  target of their biasing inﬂuence.
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgTo help understand how this might work, consider the schematic shown in
                                  Figure 2. Processing units are shown that correspond to cues (C1, C2, C3).
                                  Theycanbethoughtofasneuralrepresentationsofsensoryevents, internal states
                                  (e.g. stored memories, emotions, etc), or combinations of these. Also shown are
                                  units corresponding to the motor circuits mediating two responses (R1 and R2),
                                  as well as intervening or “hidden” units that deﬁne processing pathways between
                                  cue and response units. We have set up the type of situation for which the PFC is
                                  thought to be important. Namely, one cue (C1) can lead to either of two responses
                                  (R1 or R2) depending on the situation (C2 or C3), and appropriate behavior de-
                                  pends on establishing the correct mapping from C1 to R1 or R2. For example,
                                  imagine you are standing at the corner of a street (cue C1). Your natural reaction
                                  is to look left before crossing (R1), and this is the correct thing to do in most

=== Page 6 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           172     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 of the world (C2). However, if you are in England (C3), you should look right
                                 (R2). This is a classic example of a circumstance requiring cognitive control,
                                 which we assume depends on the PFC. How does the PFC mediate the correct
                                 behavior?
                                   Weassumethatcuesintheenvironmentactivateinternalrepresentationswithin
                                 the PFC that can select the appropriate action. This is important when the course
                                 ofactionisuncertain,andespeciallyifoneofthealternativesisstronger(i.e. more
                                 habitualormoresalient)butproducestheincorrectbehavior. Thus,standingatthe
                                 corner(C1),your“automatic”responsewouldbetolookleft(R1). However,other
                                 cues in the environment “remind” you that you are in England (C3). That is, the
                                 cues activate the corresponding PFC representation, which includes information
                                 abouttheappropriateaction.Thisproducesexcitatorybiassignalsthatguideneural
                                 activity along the pathway leading you to look right (e.g. C1 →···→R2). Note
                                 that activation of this PFC representation is necessary for you to perform the
                                 correct behavior. That is, you had to keep “in mind” the knowledge that you were
                                 in England. You might even be able to cross a few streets correctly while keeping
                                 this knowledge in mind, that is, while activity of the appropriate representation is
                                 maintained in the PFC. However, if this activity subsides—that is, if you “forget”
                                 you are in England—you are likely to revert to the more habitual response and
                                 lookleft. Repeated selection can strengthen the pathway from C1 to R2 and allow
                                 it to become independentofthePFC.Asthishappens,thebehaviorbecomesmore
                                 automatic, so you can look right without having to keep in mind that you are
                                 in England. An important question is how the PFC develops the representations
                                 needed to produce the contextually appropriate response.
                                   In an unfamiliar situation you may try various behaviors to achieve a desired
                                 goal, perhaps starting with some that have been useful in a similar circumstance
                                 (looking to the left for oncoming trafﬁc) and, if these fail, trying others until you
                                 meet with success (e.g. by looking right). We assume that each of these is as-
                                 sociated with some pattern of activity within the PFC (as in Figure 2). When a
                                 behavior meets with success, reinforcement signals augment the corresponding
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.pattern of activity by strengthening connections between the PFC neurons acti-
                                 vated by that behavior. This process also strengthens connections between these
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgneurons and those whose activity represents the situation in which the behavior
                                 wasuseful, establishing an association between these circumstances and the PFC
                                 pattern that supports the correct behavior. With time (and repeated iterations of
                                 this process), the PFC representation can be further elaborated as subtler combi-
                                 nations of events and contingencies between them and the requisite actions are
                                 learned. As is discussed below, brainstem neuromodulatory systems may provide
                                 the relevant reinforcement signals, allowing the system to “bootstrap” in this way.
                                   Obviously, many details need to be added before we fully understand the com-
                                 plexity of cognitive control. But we believe that this general notion can explain
                                 manyofthepositedfunctions of the PFC. The biasing inﬂuence of PFC feedback
                                 signals on sensory systems may mediate its role in directing attention (Stuss &
                                 Benson1986;Knight1984,1997;Banichetal2000),signalstothemotorsystem

=== Page 7 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           173
                                  may be responsible for response selection and inhibitory control (Fuster 1980,
                                  Diamond 1988), and signals to intermediate systems may support short-term
                                  (or working) memory (Goldman-Rakic 1987) and guide retrieval from long-term
                                  memory (Schachter 1997, Janowsky et al 1989, Gershberg & Shimamura 1995).
                                  WithoutthePFC,themostfrequentlyused(andthusbestestablished)neuralpath-
                                  wayswouldpredominateor,wherethesedon’texist,behaviorwouldbehaphazard.
                                  Suchimpulsive,inappropriate,ordisorganizedbehaviorisahallmarkofPFCdys-
                                  functioninhumans(e.g. Bianchi1922,Duncan1986,Luria1969,Lhermitte1983,
                                  Shallice & Burgess 1996, Stuss & Benson 1986).
                            MinimalRequirementsforaMechanism
                            of Top-DownControl
                                  There are several critical features of our theory. First, the PFC must provide a
                                  source of activity that can exert the required pattern of biasing signals to other
                                  structures. We can thus think of PFC function as “active memory in the service
                                  of control.” It follows, therefore, that the PFC must maintain its activity robustly
                                  againstdistractionsuntilagoalisachieved,yetalsobeﬂexibleenoughtoupdateits
                                  representations when needed. It must also house the appropriate representations,
                                  those that can select the neural pathways needed for the task. Insofar as primates
                                  are capable of tasks that involve diverse combinations of stimuli, internal states,
                                  and responses, representations in the PFC must have access to and be able to
                                  inﬂuence a similarly wide range of information in other brain regions. That is,
                                  PFCrepresentations must have a high capacity for multimodality and integration.
                                  Finally, as we can acquire new goals and means, the PFC must also exhibit a high
                                  degree of plasticity. Of course, it must be possible to exhibit all these properties
                                  without the need to invoke some other mechanism of control to explain them, lest
                                  our theory be subject to perennial concerns of a hidden “homunculus.”
                                    The rapidly accumulating body of ﬁndings regarding the PFC suggests that
                                  it meets these requirements. Fuster (1971, 1973, 1995), Goldman-Rakic (1987,
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.1996), and others have extensively explored the ability of PFC neurons to main-
                                  tain task-relevant information. Miller et al (1996) have shown that this is robust
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgto interference from distraction. Fuster has long advocated the role of the PFC in
                                  integrating diverse information (Fuster 1985, 1995). The earliest descriptions of
                                  the effects of frontal lobe damage suggested its role in attention and the control of
                                  behavior(Ferrier1876,Bianchi1922),andinvestigatorssincehaveinterpretedthe
                                  pattern of deﬁcits following PFC damage as a loss of the ability to acquire and use
                                  behavior-guiding rules (Shallice 1982, Duncan 1986, Passingham 1993, Grafman
                                  1994, Wise et al 1996). Recent empirical studies have begun to identify neural
                                  correlates of plasticity in the PFC (Asaad et al 1998, Bichot et al 1996, Schultz &
                                  Dickinson2000),andrecentcomputationalstudiessuggesthowthesemayoperate
                                  as mechanismsforself-organization (Braver & Cohen 2000, Egelman et al 1998).
                                  Our purpose in this article is to bring these various observations and arguments
                                  together, and to illustrate that a reasonably coherent, and mechanistically explicit,

=== Page 8 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           174     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 theory of PFC function is beginning to emerge. The view presented here draws
                                 on previous work that has begun to outline such a theory (e.g. Cohen & Servan-
                                 Schreiber 1992; Cohen et al 1996; O’Reilly et al 1999; Miller 1999, 2000). In
                                 the sections that follow, we review neurobiological, neuropsychological, and neu-
                                 roimaging ﬁndings that support this theory, and computational modeling studies
                                 that have begun to make explicit the processing mechanisms involved.
                           PROPERTIESOFTHEPFC
                           ConvergenceofDiverseInformation
                                 Oneofthecriticalfeaturesforasystemofcognitivecontrolistherequirementthat
                                 it have access to diverse information about both the internal state of the system
                                 andtheexternal state of the world. The PFC is anatomically well situated to meet
                                 this requirement. The cytoarchitectonic areas that comprise the monkey PFC are
                                 often grouped into regional subdivisions, the orbital and medial, the lateral, and
                                 themid-dorsal(seeFigure1). Collectively,theseareashaveinterconnectionswith
                                 virtuallyallsensorysystems,withcorticalandsubcorticalmotorsystemstructures,
                                 and with limbic and midbrain structures involved in affect, memory, and reward.
                                 Thesubdivisionshavepartlyunique,butoverlapping,patternsofconnectionswith
                                 the rest of the brain, which suggests some regional specialization. However, as
                                 in much of the neocortex, many PFC connections are local; there are extensive
                                 connectionsbetweendifferentPFCareasthatarelikelytosupportanintermixingof
                                 disparate information. Such intermixing provides a basis for synthesizing results
                                 from,andcoordinatingtheregulationof,awidevarietyofbrainprocesses,aswould
                                 be required of a brain area responsible for the orchestration of complex behavior.
                                 Sensory Inputs   Thelateral and mid-dorsal PFC is more closely associated with
                                 sensory neocortex than is the ventromedial PFC (see Figure 1). It receives visual,
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.somatosensory, and auditory information from the occipital, temporal, and pari-
                                 etal cortices (Barbas & Pandya 1989, 1991; Goldman-Rakic & Schwartz 1982;
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgPandya&Barnes1987;Pandya&Yeterian1990;Petrides&Pandya1984,1999;
                                 Seltzer & Pandya 1989). Many PFC areas receive converging inputs from at least
                                 two sensory modalities (Chavis & Pandya 1976; Jones & Powell 1970). For ex-
                                 ample, the dorsolateral (DL) (areas 8, 9, and 46) and ventrolateral (12 and 45)
                                 PFC both receive projections from visual, auditory, and somatosensory cortex.
                                 Furthermore, the PFC is connected with other cortical regions that are themselves
                                 sites of multimodal convergence. Many PFC areas (9, 12, 46, and 45) receive
                                 inputs from the rostral superior temporal sulcus, which has neurons with bimodal
                                 or trimodal (visual, auditory, and somatosensory) responses (Bruce et al 1981,
                                 Pandya & Barnes 1987). The arcuate sulcus region (areas 8 and 45) and area 12
                                 seem to be particularly multimodal. They contain zones that receive overlapping
                                 inputs from three sensory modalities (Pandya & Barnes 1987). In all these cases,

=== Page 9 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           175
                                  the PFC is directly connected with secondary or “association” but not primary
                                  sensory cortex.
                                  Motor Outputs   The dorsal PFC, particularly DL area 46, has preferential con-
                                  nections with motor system structures that may be central to how the PFC exerts
                                  controloverbehavior.TheDLarea46isinterconnected(a)withmotorareasinthe
                                  medial frontal lobe such as the supplementary motor area, the pre–supplementary
                                  motor area, and the rostral cingulate, (b) with the premotor cortex on the lateral
                                  frontal lobe, and (c) with cerebellum and superior colliculus (Bates & Goldman-
                                  Rakic 1993, Goldman & Nauta 1976, Lu et al 1994, Schmahmann & Pandya
                                  1997). TheDLarea46alsosendsprojectionstoarea8,whichcontainsthefrontal
                                  eye ﬁelds, a region important for voluntary shifts of gaze. There are no direct
                                  connections between the PFC and primary motor cortex, but they are extensive
                                  with premotor areas that, in turn, send projections to primary motor cortex and
                                  the spinal cord. Also important are the dense interconnections between the PFC
                                  andbasalganglia (Alexander et al 1986), a structure that is likely to be crucial for
                                  automatingbehavior. Thebasalgangliareceivesinputsfrommuchofthecerebral
                                  cortex, but its major output (via the thalamus) is frontal cortex (see Figure 1).
                                  Limbic Connections    The orbital and medial PFC are closely associated with
                                  medialtemporallimbicstructurescriticalforlong-termmemoryandtheprocessing
                                  of internal states, such as affect and motivation. This includes direct and indirect
                                  (viathemedialdorsalthalamus)connectionswiththehippocampusandassociated
                                  neocortex, the amygdala, and the hypothalamus (Amaral & Price 1984, Barbas &
                                  DeOlmos1990,Barbas&Pandya1989,Goldman-Rakicetal1984,Porrinoetal
                                  1981,VanHoesenetal1972).OtherPFCregionshaveaccesstothesesystemsboth
                                  throughconnectionswiththeorbitalandmedialPFCandthroughotherintervening
                                  structures.
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.Intrinsic ConnectionsMost PFC regions are interconnected with most other
                                  PFCregions. There are not only interconnections between all three major subdi-
                                  visions (ventromedial, lateral, and mid-dorsal) but also between their constituent
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgareas (Barbas & Pandya 1991, Pandya & Barnes 1987). The lateral PFC is partic-
                                  ularly well connected. Ventrolateral areas 12 and 45 are interconnected with DL
                                  areas 46 and 8, with dorsal area 9, as well as with ventromedial areas 11 and 13.
                                  Intrinsic connections within the PFC allow information from regional afferents
                                  andprocessestobedistributedtootherpartsofthePFC.Thus,thePFCprovidesa
                                  venuebywhichinformationfromwide-rangingbrainsystemscaninteractthrough
                                  relatively local circuitry.
                            ConvergenceandPlasticity
                                  Given that goal-directed behavior depends on our ability to piece together rela-
                                  tionships between a wide range of external and internal information, it stands to

=== Page 10 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           176     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 reason that top-down control must come from PFC representations that reﬂect a
                                 wide range of learned associations. There is mounting neurophysiological evi-
                                 dence that this is the case. Asaad et al (1998) trained monkeys to associate, on
                                 different blocks of trials, each of two cue objects with a saccade to the right or a
                                 saccade to the left. They found relatively few lateral PF neurons whose activity
                                 simply reﬂected a cue or response. Instead, the modal group of neurons (44% of
                                 the population) showed activity that reﬂected the current association between a
                                 visual cue and a directional saccade it instructed. For example, a given cell might
                                 onlybestronglyactivatedwhenobject“A”instructed“saccadeleft”andnotwhen
                                 object “B” instructed the same saccade or when object “A” instructed another sac-
                                 cade (Figure 3A). Lateral PFC neurons can also convey the degree of association
                                 between a cue and a response (Quintana & Fuster 1992).
                                   OtherstudiesindicatethatPFCneuronsacquireselectivityforfeaturestowhich
                                 they are initially insensitive but are behaviorally relevant. For example, Bichot
                                 etal(1996)observedthatneuronsinthefrontaleyeﬁelds(inthebowofthearcuate
                                 sulcus)—ordinarilynotselectivetotheformandcolorofstimuli—becamesoasthe
                                 animal learned eye movements that were contingent on these features. Similarly,
                                 Watanabe (1990, 1992) has trained monkeys to recognize that certain visual and
                                 auditory stimuli signaled whether or not, on different trials, a reward (a drop of
                                 juice)wouldbedelivered. HefoundthatneuronsinlateralPFC(aroundthearcuate
                                 sulcusandposteriorendoftheprincipalsulcus)cametoreﬂectspeciﬁccue-reward
                                 associations. For example, a given neuron could show strong activation to one of
                                 the two auditory (and none of the visual) cues, but only when it signaled reward.
                                 Other neurons were bimodal, activated by both visual and auditory cues but also
                                 strongly modulated by their reward status.
                                   Morecomplicatedbehaviorsdependnotonsimplecontingenciesbetweencues
                                 andresponsesorrewardsbutongeneralprinciplesorrulesthatmayinvolvemore-
                                 complexmapping. PFCactivity also seems to represent this information. Barone
                                 &Joseph(1989)observedcellsnearthearcuatesulcusthatwereresponsivetospe-
                                 ciﬁc light stimuli, but only when they occurred at a particular point in a particular
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.
                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→
                                 Figure 3 (A) Shown is the activity of four single prefrontal (PF) neurons when each of
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgtwoobjects,ondifferenttrials,instructedeitherasaccadetotherightorasaccadetotheleft.
                                 The lines connect the average values obtained when a given object cued one or the other
                                 saccade. The error bars show the standard error of the mean. Note that in each case, the
                                 neuron’sactivitydependsonboththecueobjectandthesaccadedirectionandthatthetuning
                                 is nonlinear or conjunctive. That is, the level of activity to a given combination of object
                                 and saccade cannot be predicted from the neuron’s response to the other combinations.
                                 [AdaptedfromAsaadetal(1998).](B)APFneuronwhoseneuralresponsetoacueobject
                                 was highly dependent on task context. The bottom half shows an example of a single
                                 PF neuron’s response to the same cue object during an object task (delayed matching to
                                 sample) and during an associative task (conditional visual motor). Note that the neuron
                                 is responsive to the cue during one task but not during the other, even though sensory
                                 stimulation is identical across the tasks. [Adapted from Asaad et al (2000).]

=== Page 11 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           177
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.org

=== Page 12 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           178     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 sequence that the monkey had to imitate. White & Wise (1999) trained a monkey
                                 toorienttoavisualtargetaccordingtotwodifferentrules.Oneoffourcuepatterns
                                 brieﬂy appeared at one of four locations. The cue indicated where a target would
                                 eventuallyappear.Itdidsobyoneoftworules,aspatialrule(thecueappearedatthe
                                 samelocationthatthetargetwouldappear)oranassociativerule(theidentityofthe
                                 cueinstructedthelocation,e.g. cueAindicatedtheright,cueBtheleft,etc). They
                                 found that up to half of lateral PFC neurons showed activity that varied with the
                                 rule. Another example was provided by Asaad et al (2000), who trained monkeys
                                 to alternate between tasks that employed the same cues and responses but three
                                 different rules: matching (delayed matching to sample), associative (conditional
                                 visuomotor), and spatial (spatial delayed response). Over half of lateral PFC
                                 neurons were rule dependent. Neural responses to a given cue or forthcoming
                                 saccade often depended on which rule was current in the task (Figure 3B). Plus,
                                 thebaselineactivityofmanyneurons(54%)variedwiththerule. Hoshietal(1998)
                                 havealsoobservedPFCneuronsthatweremodulatedbywhetherthemonkeywas
                                 using a shape-matching or location-matching rule. Recently, Wallis et al (2000)
                                 haveshownthatlateralandorbitofrontalPFCneuronsreﬂectwhetherthemonkey
                                 is currently using a “matching” or “nonmatching” rule to select a test object.
                                   Studies of monkeys and humanswithPFCdamagealsosuggestthatthePFCis
                                 criticalforlearningrules. Forexample,PetridesfoundthatfollowingPFCdamage,
                                 patients could no longer learn arbitrary associations between visual patterns and
                                 hand gestures (Petrides 1985, 1990). In monkeys, damage to ventrolateral area
                                 12 or to the arcuate sulcus region also impairs the ability to learn arbitrary cue-
                                 response associations (Halsband & Passingham 1985, Murray et al 2000, Petrides
                                 1982,1985). Learningofvisualstimulus-responseconditionalassociationsisalso
                                 impairedbydamagetoPFCinputsfromthetemporalcortex(Eacott&Gaffan1992,
                                 Gaffan & Harrison 1988, Parker & Gaffan 1998). Passingham (1993) argues that
                                 most,ifnotall,tasksthataredisruptedfollowingPFCdamagedependonacquiring
                                 conditional associations (if-then rules).
                                   In sum, these results indicate that PFC neural activity represents the rules,
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.or mappings required to perform a particular task, and not just single stimuli or
                                 forthcomingactions. WeassumethatthisactivitywithinthePFCestablishesthese
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgmappingsbybiasingcompetitioninotherpartsofthebrainresponsibleforactually
                                 performing the task. These signals favor task-relevant sensory inputs (attention),
                                 memories (recall), and motor outputs (response selection) and thus guide activity
                                 along the pathways that connect them (conditional association).
                           FeedbacktoOtherBrainAreas
                                 Our model of PFC function requires feedback signals from the PFC to reach
                                 widespread targets throughout the brain. The PFC has the neural machinery to
                                 provide these feedback signals; it sends projections to much of the neocortex
                                 (Pandya & Barnes 1987, Pandya & Yeterian 1990). Physiological studies have
                                 yielded results consistent with this notion.

=== Page 13 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           179
                                    Fuster et al (1985) and Chafee & Goldman-Rakic (2000) have found that de-
                                  activating the lateral PFC cortex attenuates the activity of visual cortical (inferior
                                  temporal and posterior parietal) neurons to a behaviorally relevant cue. Tomita
                                  et al (1999) directly explored the role of top-down PFC signals in the recall of
                                  visual memories stored in the inferior temporal (IT) cortex. Appearance of a cue
                                  object instructed monkeys to recall and then choose another object that was as-
                                  sociated with the cue during training. In the intact brain, information is shared
                                  between IT cortices in the two cerebral hemispheres. By severing the connecting
                                  ﬁbers, each IT cortex could only “see” (receive bottom-up inputs from) visual
                                  stimuli in the contralateral visual ﬁeld. The ﬁbers connecting the PFC in each
                                  hemisphere were left intact. When Tomita et al examined activity of single neu-
                                  rons in an IT cortex that could not “see” the cue, it nonetheless reﬂected the
                                  recalled object, albeit with a long latency. It appeared that visual information
                                  took a circuitous route, traveling from the opposite IT cortex (which could “see”
                                  the cue) to the still-connected PFC in each hemisphere and then down to the
                                  “blind”ITcortex.ThiswasconﬁrmedbyseveringthePFCinthetwohemispheres
                                  and eliminating the feedback, which abolished the IT activity and disrupted task
                                  performance.
                                    Other evidence suggestive of PFC-IT interactions also comes from investiga-
                                  tions, by Miller & Desimone (1994) and Miller et al (1996), of the respective
                                  roles of the PFC and IT cortex in working memory. During each trial, monkeys
                                  were shown ﬁrst a sample stimulus. Then, one to four test stimuli appeared in
                                  sequence. If a test stimulus matched the sample, the monkey indicated so by
                                  releasing a lever. Sometimes, one of the intervening nonmatch stimuli could be
                                  repeated. For example, the sample stimulus “A” might be followed by “B ... B ...
                                  C... A.” The monkey was only rewarded for responding to the ﬁnal match (“A”)
                                  and thus had to maintain a speciﬁc representation of the sample rather than re-
                                  spondtoanyrepetitionofanystimulus.Asnotedinthenextsection,neuronswere
                                  foundinthePFCthatexhibitedsustainedsample-speciﬁcactivitythatsurvivedthe
                                  presentation of intervening distractors. This was not so for IT cortex. However,
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.neurons in both areas showed a selective enhancement of responses to a match of
                                  the sample. The fact that IT neurons had not maintained a representation of this
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgstimulus suggests that their enhanced response to the match might have resulted
                                  frominteractionswiththerepresentationmaintainedinthePFC.Thisisconsistent
                                  withtherecentﬁndingindicatingthat,inatargetdetectiontask,target-speciﬁcac-
                                  tivity appears simultaneously within the PFC and the visual cortex (Anderson et al
                                  1999). Together, these ﬁndings suggest that identiﬁcation of an intended stimulus
                                  relies on interactions between the PFC and the posterior cortex.
                            Active Maintenance
                                  If the PFC represents the rules of a task in its pattern of neural activity, it must
                                  maintain this activity as long as the rule is required. Usually this extends beyond
                                  the eliciting event and must span other intervening, irrelevant, and potentially

=== Page 14 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           180     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 interfering events. The capacity to support sustained activity in the face of
                                 interference is one of the distinguishing characteristics of the PFC.
                                   Sustained neural activity within the PFC was ﬁrst reported by Fuster (1971)
                                 and Kubota & Niki (1971) and has subsequently been reported in a large number
                                 of studies. These have demonstrated that neurons within the PFC remain active
                                 during the delay between a transiently presented cue and the later execution of a
                                 contingentresponse. Suchdelayperiodactivityisoftenspeciﬁctoaparticulartype
                                 of information, such as the location and/or identity of a stimulus (di Pellegrino &
                                 Wise 1991; Funahashi et al 1989; Fuster 1973; Fuster & Alexander 1971;
                                 Kubota & Niki 1971; Rainer et al 1998a,b, 1999; Rao et al 1997; Romo et al
                                 1999), forthcoming actions (Asaad et al 1998, Ferrera et al 1999, Quintana &
                                 Fuster 1992), expected rewards (Leon & Shadlen 1999, Tremblay et al 1998,
                                 Watanabe 1996), and more-complex properties such as the sequential position of
                                 a stimulus within an ordered series (Barone & Joseph 1989) or a particular as-
                                 sociation between a stimulus and its corresponding response (Asaad et al 1998).
                                 Functional neuroimaging studies have begun to yield similar results with humans
                                 (Cohen et al 1997, Courtney et al 1997, Prabhakaran et al 2000).
                                   Otherareasofthebrainexhibitasimpleformofsustainedactivity. Forexample,
                                 inmanycorticalvisualareas,abriefvisualstimuluswillevokeactivitythatpersists
                                 from several hundred milliseconds to several seconds (Fuster & Jervey 1981,
                                 Gnadt & Andersen 1988, Miller et al 1993, Miyashita & Chang 1988). What
                                 appears to distinguish the PFC is the ability to sustain such activity in the face
                                 of intervening distractions. When monkeys must sustain the memory of a sample
                                 objectoveradelayﬁlledwithvisualdistractors,eachofwhichmustbeattendedand
                                 processed, sustained activity in the PFC can maintain the sample memory across
                                 the distractors (Miller et al 1996). By contrast, sustained activity in extrastriate
                                 visual areas (such as the IT and posterior parietal cortex) is easily disrupted by
                                 distractors (Constantinidis & Steinmetz 1996; Miller et al 1993, 1996). Thus,
                                 posterior cortical neurons seem to reﬂect the most recent input regardless of its
                                 relevance, whereas the PFC selectively maintains task-relevant information.
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.
                           Learning“AcrossTime”WithinthePFC
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgTypically,theinternalrepresentationofgoalsandassociatedrulesmustbeactivated
                                 in anticipation of the behavior they govern. Furthermore, as we have seen, rules
                                 ofteninvolvelearningassociationsbetweenstimuliandbehaviorsthatareseparated
                                 intime. Howcanassociationsbelearnedbetweenaruleoreventthatoccursatone
                                 point in time and contingent behaviors or rewards that occur later? The capacity
                                 of the PFC for active maintenance, coupled with its innervation by brainstem
                                 dopaminergic systems, suggests one way in which this might occur.
                                   The capacity to actively maintain representations over time is fundamental to
                                 associative learning, as it allows information about ﬂeeting events and actions to
                                 comingle that would otherwise be separated in time (Fuster 1985). For example,
                                 considertheAsaadetal(1998)studydiscussedabove,inwhichthemonkeyneeded

=== Page 15 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           181
                                  to associate a cue object with the direction of a saccade that had to be made after
                                  the cue was no longer present. Presumably, this was made possible by sustained
                                  activity within the PFC that insured that a representation of the cue persisted
                                  until a saccade was made. Furthermore, as learning progressed, activity related
                                  to the forthcoming saccade direction was triggered progressively earlier. Thus,
                                  even though the cue and action were separated in time, information about each
                                  was simultaneously present in the PFC, permitting an association to be formed
                                  between them. In addition to associating temporally separate events that were
                                  needed to form task rules, the PFC must be able to associate those rules, and the
                                  conditionsthatelicitedthem,withsubsequentreward. Thisisnecessaryifpatterns
                                  of PFC activity responsible for achieving a goal are to be reinforced, so that they
                                  arelikelytorecurundertheappropriateconditionsinthefuture.Thisfunctionmay
                                  be served by dopaminergic projections from the midbrain ventral tegmental area.
                                    Midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons exhibit relatively low levels of spontaneous
                                  ﬁringbutgiveburstsofactivitytobehaviorallysalientevents,especiallythedeliv-
                                  eryofunpredicted,desirablestimuli,suchasfoodorjuicerewards(Mirenowicz&
                                  Schultz 1994, 1996). As learning progresses, however, DA neurons become acti-
                                  vated progressively earlier in time, by events that predict reward, and cease their
                                  activation to the now-expectedreward(Schultzetal1993). Ifthepredictedreward
                                  fails to appear, activity is inhibited at the expected time of its delivery (Hollerman
                                  &Schultz1998),andifthereward(oraneventthathascometopredictit)appears
                                  earlier than expected, it will again elicit DA neural responses. Thus, midbrain DA
                                  neuronsseemtobecoding“predictionerror,”thedegreetowhichareward,oracue
                                  associated with reward, is surprising (Montague et al 1996, Schultz 1998). There
                                  is growing evidence that this mechanism operates within PFC. Neurons through-
                                  out the PFC (e.g. in lateral as well as ventromedial areas) convey information
                                  about expected rewards and show enhanced activity as the size and desirability of
                                  an expected reward increases (Leon & Shadlen 1999; Tremblay & Schultz 1999;
                                  Watanabe 1990, 1992, 1996). Similar observations have been made in human
                                  neuroimaging studies (London et al 2000, O’Doherty et al 2000).
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.Theaimofthecognitive system is not only to predict reward but to pursue the
                                  actions that will ensure its procurement. The prediction error signal could help
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgmediate this learning by selectively strengthening not only connections among
                                  neurons that provide information about the prediction of reward (Schultz et al
                                  1997), but also their connections with representations in the PFC that guide the
                                  behavior needed to achieve it. The role of the PFC in mediating this relationship
                                  is suggested by the observation that frontally damaged patients exhibit distur-
                                  bancesinlearninganddecision-makingtasksthatinvolvetheevaluationofreward
                                  (Becharaetal1994,1997;Rolls2000). Evidencethatapredictivereinforcement-
                                  learningmechanismmayoperatewithinthePFCwasalsoobservedbyAsaadetal
                                  (1998). In this experiment, monkeys learned to associate visual cues with one of
                                  two saccadic responses. Initially, the monkeys chose their responses at random,
                                  but learned the correct cue-response pairing over a few trials. As they learned
                                  the association, neural activity representing the forthcoming saccadic response

=== Page 16 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           182     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 appeared progressively earlier on successive trials. In other words, the initiation
                                 of response-related delay activity gradually shifted, with learning, from a point in
                                 timejustbeforetheexecutionoftheresponseandrewarddeliverytoprogressively
                                 earlier points in time, until it was nearly coincident with the presentation of the
                                 cue. This evolution with learning closely resembles that of the reward-prediction
                                 signalthoughttobemediatedbytheDAsystem(Montagueetal1996). Inthesec-
                                 tion that follows, we discuss computational modeling work that provides further
                                 support for the plausibility of a DA-based learning mechanism that can establish
                                 an association between anticipation of reward and activation of representations in
                                 the PFC needed to achieve it.
                           Summary
                                 Our review of studies in monkeys and humans shows that the PFC exhibits the
                                 properties required to support a role in cognitive control: sustained activity that
                                 is robust to interference; multimodal convergence and integration of behaviorally
                                 relevantinformation; feedbackpathwaysthatcanexertbiasinginﬂuencesonother
                                 structures throughout the brain; and ongoing plasticity that is adaptive to the
                                 demandsofnewtasks.Ofcourse,thesepropertiesarenotuniquetothePFC.They
                                 canbefoundelsewhereinthebrain,tovaryingdegreesandinvariouscombinations.
                                 However, we argue that the PFC represents a specialization along this particular
                                 combination of dimensions that is optimal for a role in the brain-wide control and
                                 coordinationofprocessing. Inthesectionthatfollows,weconsiderthetheoretical
                                 implicationsofthismodel,withreferencetocomputationalanalysesthatillustrate
                                 these in explicit and concrete form.
                           AGUIDEDACTIVATIONTHEORYOFPFCFUNCTION
                                 Explorations of how properties of the PFC might be implemented to mediate
                                 control have been conducted using neural network models. Such models attempt
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.tosimulatethebehavioralperformanceofhumansubjects(oranimals)incognitive
                                 tasks using neurobiologically plausible mechanisms (e.g. the spread of activity
                                 among simple processing units along weighted connections) in order to identify
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgthe principles that are most relevant to behavior. Using this approach, Dehaene &
                                 Changeux (1989, 1992), Levine & Prueitt (1989), Cohen & Servan-Schreiber
                                 (1992), and Braver et al (1995) have all described models of PFC function and
                                 have used these to simulate the performance of normal and frontally damaged
                                 patients in tasks that are sensitive to PFC damage, such as the Stroop task, WCST,
                                 and others. These models capture many of the PFC properties reviewed in the
                                 ﬁrst part of this article and suggest how they might interact to engender cognitive
                                 control.
                           ASimpleModelofPFCFunction
                                 Most neural network models that address the function of the PFC simulate it as
                                 the activation of a set of “rule” units whose activation leads to the production of a

=== Page 17 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           183
                                  response other than the one most strongly associated with a given input. In most
                                  models,thePFCunitsthemselvesarenotresponsibleforcarryingoutinput-output
                                  mappingsneededforperformance.Rather,theyinﬂuencetheactivityofotherunits
                                  whoseresponsibility is making the needed mappings. This principle is illustrated
                                  inits simplestformbyamodeloftheStrooptaskdevelopedbyCohenetal(1990).
                                    This model (Figure 4) is made up of ﬁve sets of units required for carrying
                                  out each of the two possible tasks in a Stroop experiment, color naming and word
                                  reading: two sets of input units representing each of the two types of stimulus
                                  features (e.g. the colors red and green, and the orthographic features associated
                                  withthewordsREDandGREEN);asetofoutputunitsrepresentingeachpotential
                                  response (e.g. the articulatory codes for “red” and “green”); and two sets of
                                  intermediate units that provide a pathway between each set of input units and
                                  the output units. Connections along the word-reading pathway are stronger as
                                  a consequence of more extensive and consistent use. The result is that when a
                                  Stroop conﬂict stimulus is presented (such as the word GREEN printed in red
                                  ink), information ﬂowing along the word pathway dominates competition at the
                                  response level, and the model responds to the word (see Figure 4A). This captures
                                  the fact that in the absence of instructions, subjects routinely read the word (i.e.
                                  say “green”). However, when they are instructed to do so, subjects can instead
                                  namethecolor (i.e. say “red”).
                                    Theability to engage the weaker pathway requires the addition of a set of units
                                  (labeled “control” in Figure 4), which in this case, represent the two dimensions
                                  of the stimulus (color and word). Each of these control units is connected to
                                  intermediate units in the corresponding processing pathway. Activating one of
                                  these units biases processing in favor of that pathway by providing additional
                                  input to (i.e. “priming”) the intermediate units along that pathway. In the case
                                  of the color pathway, this allows them to more effectively compete with and
                                  prevailoveractivityﬂowingalongthestrongerwordpathway(seeFigure4B).This
                                  biasing effect corresponds to the role of top-down attentional control in the biased
                                  competition model proposed by Desimone & Duncan (1995). We assume that the
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.controlunitsintheStroopmodelrepresentthefunctionofneuronswithinthePFC;
                                  they establish the mapping between stimuli and responses required to perform the
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgtask. This model provides a concrete implementation of the scheme diagrammed
                                  in Figure 2. It and closely related models have been used to simulate quantitative
                                  features of the performance of both normal subjects and patients with frontal
                                  damageinawiderangeoftasksthatrely on cognitive control (Braver et al 1995;
                                  Cohen & Servan-Schreiber 1992; Cohen et al 1992, 1994a,b, 1996; Dehaene &
                                  Changeux1992;Mozer1991;Phafetal1990).
                            GuidedActivationasaMechanismofCognitiveControl
                                  The Stroop model brings several features of our theory into focus. First, it em-
                                  phasizes that the role of the PFC is modulatory rather than transmissive. That is,
                                  the pathway from input to output does not “run through” the PFC. Instead, the
                                  PFC guides activity ﬂow along task-relevant pathways in more posterior and/or

=== Page 18 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           184     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 subcortical areas. In this respect, the function of the PFC can be likened to that
                                 of a switch operator in a system of railroad tracks. We can think of the brain as
                                 a set of tracks (pathways) connecting various origins (e.g. stimuli) to destinations
                                 (responses). The goal is to get the trains (activity carrying information) at each
                                 origin to their proper destination as efﬁciently as possible, avoiding any collisions.
                                 Whenthetrack is clear (i.e. a train can get from its origin to destination without
                                 risk of running into any others), then no intervention is needed (i.e. the behavior
                                 can be carried out automatically and will not rely on the PFC). However, if two
                                 trains must cross the same bit of track, then some coordination is needed to guide
                                 them safely to their destinations. Patterns of PFC activity can be thought of as a
                                 map that speciﬁes which pattern of “tracks” is needed to solve the task. In the
                                 brain, this is achieved by the biasing inﬂuence that patterns of PFC activity have
                                 on the ﬂow of activity in other parts of the brain, guiding it along pathways re-
                                 sponsible for task performance, just as activation of the color-control unit in the
                                 Stroop model biased processing in favor of the color-naming pathway. Note that
                                 this function need not be restricted to mappings from stimuli to responses but ap-
                                 plies equally well to mappings involving internal states (e.g. thoughts, memories,
                                 emotions, etc), either as “origins” or “destinations,” or both. Thus, depending on
                                 their target of inﬂuence, we can think of representations in the PFC as attentional
                                 templates, retrieval cues, rules, or goals, depending on whether the biasing inﬂu-
                                 ences target sensory processes, internal processes, particular courses of action, or
                                 their intended outcomes.
                                   This distinction between modulation vs transmission is consistent with the
                                 classic pattern of neuropsychologicaldeﬁcitsassociatedwithfrontallobedamage.
                                 The components of a complex behavior are usually left intact, but the subject is
                                 not able to coordinate them in a task-appropriate way (for example, a patient who,
                                 whenpreparing coffee, ﬁrst stirred and then added cream) (Shallice 1982, Levine
                                 et al 1998, Duncanetal1996). ThenotionthatthefunctionofthePFCisprimarily
                                 modulatory also makes some interesting and testable predictions. For example, in
                                 neuroimaging studies, it should be possible to ﬁnd circumstances that activate
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.more posterior cortical areas without activation of the PFC whereas it should be
                                 muchlesscommontoactivatethePFCwithoutassociatedposteriorstructures. In
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgother words, although there should be circumstances under which transmission
                                 can occur without the need for modulation (e.g. word reading in the Stroop task),
                                 it does not make sense to have modulation in the absence of transmission.
                           Active MaintenanceintheServiceofControl
                                 The Stroop model also illustrates another critical feature of our theory: the im-
                                 portance of sustained activity as a mechanism of control. For a representation
                                 to have a biasing inﬂuence, it must be activated over the course of performing a
                                 task. This feature of the model brings theories of PFC function into direct contact
                                 with cognitive psychological constructs, such as the relationship between con-
                                 trolled (PFC-mediated) and automatic processing. The model suggests that this

=== Page 19 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           185
                                  is a continuum, deﬁned by the relative strength of the pathway supporting a task-
                                  relevantprocesscomparedwiththosecarryingcompetinginformation(Cohenetal
                                  1990). Thus, weaker pathways (such as for color naming) rely more on top-down
                                  support (i.e. the activity of control units), especially when they face competition
                                  from a stronger pathway (e.g. word reading).
                                    This suggests that an increase in the demand for control requires greater or
                                  more-enduring PFC activation, which concurs with accumulating evidence from
                                  the neuroimaging literature that tasks thought to rely more heavily on controlled
                                  processing consistently engage the PFC (Baker et al 1996; Cohen et al 1994a,b,
                                  1997; Frith et al 1991; MacDonald et al 2000; Smith & Jonides 1999; Banich
                                  et al 2000). Furthermore, it provides a mechanistic account of the long-standing
                                  observation that as a task becomes more practiced, its reliance on control (and
                                  the PFC) is reduced. This happens because practice strengthens the connections
                                  along the task-relevant pathway in other brain structures. Simulations using the
                                  Stroop model (Cohen et al 1990) capture detailed quantitative effects of prac-
                                  tice both on measures of performance (e.g. power law improvements in speed of
                                  response) and concurrent changes in the reliance on control (e.g. Stroop interfer-
                                  ence). From a neural perspective, as a pathway is repeatedly selected by PFC
                                  bias signals, activity-dependent plasticity mechanisms can strengthen them. Over
                                  time, these circuits can function independently of the PFC, and performance of
                                  the task becomes more automatic. This concurs with studies showing that PFC
                                  damageimpairsnewlearningwhilesparingwell-practicedtasks (Rushworth et al
                                  1997) and neuroimaging and neurophysiological studies that demonstrate greater
                                  PFCactivation during initial learning and weaker activity as a task becomes more
                                  practiced (Knight 1984, 1997; Yamaguchi & Knight 1991; Asaad et al 1998;
                                  Shadmehr&Holcomb1997,Petersenetal1998).
                                    OurviewalsoprovidesaninterpretationoftherelationshipbetweenPFCfunc-
                                  tion and working memory. Traditional theories of working memory have distin-
                                  guished between storage and executive components (Baddeley 1986), with the
                                  former responsible for maintaining information online (i.e. in an activated state),
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.andthelatter responsible for its manipulation (i.e. the execution of control). Neu-
                                  ropsychological interpretations have placed the storage component in more pos-
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgterior sensory and motor systems (e.g. Gathercole 1994), whereas the executive
                                  control component has been assigned to the PFC. By contrast, as reviewed above,
                                  early monkey neurophysiological studies have emphasized the role of the PFC
                                  in maintenance. Our theory offers a possible resolution of this dilemma. It sug-
                                  gests that executive control involves the active maintenance of a particular type of
                                  information: thegoalsandrulesofatask.Thisviewconcurswithcognitivepsycho-
                                                                                                 ∗) (Anderson
                                  logical theories based on production system architectures (e.g. ACT
                                  1983),whichpositthatexecutivecontrolreliesontheactivationofrepresentations
                                  that correspond to the goals of a behavior and the rules for achieving it.
                                    This perspective also provides a unifying view of the role of the PFC in other
                                  cognitive functions with which it has been associated, most commonly attention
                                  andinhibition. Bothcanbeseenasvaryingreﬂections,inbehavior,oftheoperation

=== Page 20 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           186     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 of a single underlying mechanism of cognitive control: the biasing effects of PFC
                                 activityonprocessinginpathwaysresponsiblefortaskperformance. Assuggested
                                 by the biased competition model of Desimone & Duncan (1995), selective atten-
                                 tion and behavioral inhibition are two sides of the same coin: Attention is the
                                 effect of biasing competition in favor of task-relevant information, and inhibition
                                 is the consequence that this has for the irrelevant information. Note that according
                                 to this view, inhibition occurs because of local competition among conﬂicting rep-
                                 resentations (e.g. between the two responses in the Stroop model) rather than cen-
                                 trally by the PFC. The “binding” function of selective attention (e.g. Treisman &
                                 Gelade1980)canalsobeexplainedbysuchamechanismif,inthiscase,wethink
                                 of PFC representations as selecting the desired combination of stimulus features
                                 to be mapped onto the response over other competing combinations.
                                   Finally, it is important to distinguish the form of activity-dependent control
                                 that we have ascribed to PFC from other forms of control that may occur in the
                                 brain. In particular, we believe that PFC-mediated control is complemented by
                                 another form of control dependent on the hippocampal system. The hippocampus
                                 is important for binding together information into a memory of a speciﬁc episode
                                 (Eichenbaum et al 1999, McClelland et al 1995, Squire 1992, Zola-Morgan &
                                 Squire1993). Bycontrast,wesuggestthatthePFC,likeotherneocorticalareas,is
                                 more important for extracting the regularities across episodes—in the case of the
                                 PFC,thosecorrespondingtogoalsandtaskrules,ratherthanepisodicmemoriesof
                                 actually performing the task. We further posit that the PFC uses “activity-based”
                                 control; thatis, its ongoingactivityspeciﬁesthepatternofneuralpathwaysthatare
                                 currentlyneeded.IfPFCactivitychanges,sodoestheselectedpatternofpathways.
                                 Bycontrast, the hippocampus mayprovideaformof“weighted-based”control; it
                                 helps consolidate permanent associative links between the pieces of information
                                 that deﬁne a long-term memory (Cohen & O’Reilly 1996, O’Reilly et al 1999,
                                 O’Reilly 2000). To use the railroad metaphor, the hippocampus is responsible for
                                 laying downnewtracksandthePFCisresponsibleforﬂexiblyswitchingbetween
                                 them. As noted below, interactions between the PFC and the hippocampus may
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.provide a basis for understanding prospective forms of control, such as planning.
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgUpdatingofPFCRepresentations
                                 In the real world, cognitive control is highly dynamic. People move from one task
                                 to the next, and new goals replace old ones. A major beneﬁt of the activity-based
                                 mechanismofcontrolthatwehaveproposedisthatitishighlyﬂexible. Solongas
                                 suitable representations exist within the PFC, activating them can quickly invoke
                                 a goal or rule, which can be ﬂexibly switched to others as circumstances demand.
                                 That is, it is easier and faster (and perhaps less costly) to switch between existing
                                 tracks than it is to lay new ones down. This is clearly illustrated by models of PFC
                                 function in the WCST (Dehaene & Changeux 1992) and recent variants of this
                                 task (RC O’Reilly, DC Noelle, TS Braver, JD Cohen, submitted for publication),
                                 and it is supported by the fact that damage to the PFC impairs such ﬂexibility

=== Page 21 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           187
                                  (Milner 1963, Dias et al 1996b, Rossi et al 1999). It should be noted, however,
                                  that the mechanismsresponsibleforupdatingrepresentationswithinthePFCmust
                                  beabletosatisfytwoconﬂictingdemands: Ontheonehand,theymustberespon-
                                  sive to relevant changes in the environment (adaptive); on the other, they must be
                                  resistant to updating by irrelevant changes (robust). As described above, neuro-
                                  physiological studies suggest that PFC representations are selectively responsive
                                  to task-relevant stimuli (Rainer et al 1998b), yet they are robust to interference
                                  from distractors (Miller et al 1996). Conversely, two hallmarks of damage to the
                                  PFC are perseveration (inadequate updating) and increased distractibility (inap-
                                  propriateupdating)(e.g.Mishkin1964,Chao&Knight1997).Theseobservations
                                  suggest the operation of mechanisms that ensure the appropriate updating of PFC
                                  activity in response to behavioral demands.
                                    Cohenetal(1996)andBraver&Cohen(2000)haveproposedthatDAmayplay
                                  an important role in this function. They hypothesize that DA release may “gate”
                                  accesstothePFCbymodulatingtheinﬂuenceofitsafferentconnections. Asimilar
                                  roleforDAinthePFChasbeensuggestedbyDurstewitzetal(1999,2000). Timing
                                  is a critical feature of such a gating mechanism: The signal-to-gate input must be
                                  rapid and coincide with the conditions under which an update is needed. This is
                                  consistent with recent studies indicating that DA release (once thought to be slow
                                  and nonspeciﬁc) has a phasic component with timing characteristics consistent
                                  with its proposed role in gating (Schultz 1998, Schultz & Dickinson 2000). As
                                  discussedabove,midbrainDAneuronsgiveburstsofactivitytostimulithatarenot
                                  predicted but that predict a later reward. This is precisely the timing required for a
                                  gating signal responsible for updating goal representations. For example, imagine
                                  that you are walking to work and out of the corner of your eye you notice a $20
                                  bill lying on the ground. This unpredicted stimulus predicts reward, but only if
                                  youupdate your current goal and bend down to pick up the bill.
                                    It is intriguing that the properties of midbrain DA neurons that may drive PFC
                                  associativelearningmechanisms(discussedabove)areformallyequivalenttothose
                                  used in models that simulate PFC updating mechanisms. These dual and concur-
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.rent inﬂuences of DA on gating and learning suggest that if the system learns
                                  while it gates, then perhaps it can learn on its own when to gate. That is, if an
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgexploratory DA-mediated gating signal leads to a successful behavior, its coin-
                                  cident reinforcing effects will strengthen the association of this signal with cues
                                  representing the current context and the pattern of activity within the PFC that
                                  produced the behavior. This will increase the probability that in the future, the
                                  same context will elicit a gating signal and reactivation of the PFC activity that
                                  led to the rewarded behavior, which in turn will produce further reinforcement of
                                  these associations, etc. Recent computational modeling studies establish the plau-
                                  sibility of this bootstrapping mechanism (Braver & Cohen 2000). This ability to
                                  self-organize averts the problem of a theoretical regress regarding control (i.e. the
                                  invocation of a “homunculus”) by allowing the system to learn on its own what
                                  signals should produce an updating of the contents of the PFC and when this
                                  should occur.  However, an important issue that requires further exploration

=== Page 22 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           188     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 is whetherthissystemcansupport“subgoaling,”orhierarchicalupdating—thatis,
                                 theupdatingofsomerepresentations(e.g.thenextchessmovetomake)whilepre-
                                 serving others (e.g. the strategy being pursued). A closely related issue concerns
                                 the proper sequencing of actions. These abilities are fundamental to virtually all
                                 highercognitivefaculties,suchasreasoningandproblemsolving(Newell&Simon
                                 1972), and are known to involve the PFC (e.g. Duncan 1986; Duncan et al 1996;
                                 Bakeretal1996;Koechlin1999;Nichellietal1994;Shallice1982,1988). Recent
                                 modeling work suggests that hierarchical updating and the sequencing of actions
                                 may rely on interactions between the PFC and the basal ganglia (Gobbel 1995,
                                 Houck 1995); however, a full elaboration of the mechanisms involved remains a
                                 challenge for future work.
                           REMAININGISSUES
                                 Adetailed consideration of all the issues relevant to cognitive control is beyond
                                 thescopeofthisarticle. However,someadditionalissuesareimportantforamore
                                 complete theory of PFC function and cognitive control. Here, we brieﬂy review
                                 several important remaining issues.
                           Representational Power of the PFC
                                 Thetremendousrangeoftasksofwhichpeoplearecapableraisesimportantques-
                                 tionsabouttheabilityofthePFCtosupportthenecessaryscopeofrepresentations.
                                 ThelargesizeofthePFC(over30%ofthecorticalmass),coupledwithitsanatomic
                                 connectivitydiscussedearlier,suggeststhatitcansupportawidenumberandrange
                                 of mappings. However, there are a nearly limitless number of tasks that a person
                                 canbeaskedtoperform(e.g.“winkwheneverIsaybumblydoodle”),anditseems
                                 unlikely that all possible mappings are represented within the PFC. It is possible
                                 that some as-yet-undiscovered representational scheme supports a wide enough
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.rangeofmappingstoaccountfortheﬂexibilityofhumanbehavior. However,more
                                 likely, it seems that plasticity may also play an important role in PFC function,
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgestablishing new representations as they are needed. This need is accentuated by
                                 virtue of the fact that the PFC must be able to modulate processes in other parts
                                 of the brain that are themselves plastic. Conversely, the circuitry within the PFC
                                 that supports older, well-established behaviors is likely to be “reclaimed” as PFC-
                                 independentpathwaysbecomeresponsibleforthem.Above,wereviewedevidence
                                 that the PFC exhibits a high degree of plasticity. As yet, however, the mechanisms
                                 that govern this plasticity are largely unknown, at either the neurobiological or the
                                 computational levels. At the neural level, this could involve the modiﬁcation of
                                 existingsynapses,theformationofnewones(perhapswiththeassistanceofrapid-
                                 learningmechanismsinthehippocampus),oreventherecruitmentofentirelynew
                                 neurons (Gould et al 1999). At the computational level, we have suggested how
                                 predictive reinforcement-learning mechanisms can (a) strengthen patterns of PFC

=== Page 23 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           189
                                  activity that appropriately guide behavior and (b) associate them with the circum-
                                  stances in which they are useful. However, the ability of such mechanisms to
                                  accountforthewiderangeandextraordinaryﬂexibilityofhumanbehaviorremain
                                  to be established.
                            PFCFunctionalOrganization
                                  One important question concerns how PFC representations are functionally or-
                                  ganized. Understanding the principles of PFC organization is likely to provide
                                  insights into how its representations develop and function. Various schemes have
                                  beenproposed. For example, one possibility is that the PFC is organized by func-
                                  tion, with different regions carrying out qualitatively different operations. One
                                  long-standing view is that orbital and medial areas are associated with behavioral
                                  inhibition, whereasventrolateralanddorsalregionsareassociatedwithmemoryor
                                  attentionalfunctions(Fuster1989,Goldman-Rakic1987). Anotherrecentsugges-
                                  tionisthatventralregionssupportmaintenanceofinformation(memory),whereas
                                  dorsal regions are responsible for the manipulation of such information (Owen et
                                  al 1996, Petrides 1996). Such distinctions have heuristic appeal. However, our
                                  theory suggests an intriguing alternative.
                                    If different regions of the PFC emphasize different types of information, then
                                  perhapsvariationsinthebiasingsignalsthattheyprovidecanaccountforapparent
                                  dissociations of function. For example, both activity and deﬁcits of orbital PFC
                                  are most frequently associated with tasks involving social, emotional, and appe-
                                  titive stimuli (Hecaen & Albert 1978, O’Doherty et al 2000, Price 1999, Stuss &
                                  Benson 1986, Swedo et al 1989), whereas more-dorsal regions are activated in
                                  tasks involving more-“cognitive” dimensions of stimuli (form, location, sequen-
                                  tial order, etc). Social and appetitive stimuli are “hot,” meaning they are more
                                  likely to elicit reﬂexive (and often inappropriate) reactions. Thus, the impres-
                                  sion that the orbital PFC subserves an inhibitory function may be explained by
                                  the fact that it is more involved in biasing task-relevant processes against strong
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.competingalternatives. In contrast, more-cognitive stimuli (e.g. shapes, locations,
                                  etc) that engage more-dorsal regions are “cold,” meaning they are less likely
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgto engage responses with such asymmetries of strength. Thus, their competition is
                                  likelytobelessﬁerce. Neuropsychologicalstudiesofmonkeyssupportthisnotion
                                  (Diasetal1996a,Roberts&Wallis2000),andrecentcomputationalmodelinghas
                                  shown that dissociations in performance interpreted as evidence of a distinction
                                  between inhibitory and memory processes within the PFC can, alternatively, be
                                  explainedintermsofasingleprocessingmechanismoperatingoverdifferenttypes
                                  of representations (RC O’Reilly, DC Boelle, TS Braver, JD Cohen, submitted for
                                  publication).
                                    Other organizational schemes have also been proposed for the PFC, including
                                  those based on stimulus dimensions, sensory vs motor, and sequential order (e.g.
                                  Barone & Joseph 1989, Wilson et al 1993, Wagner 1999, Casey et al 2000).
                                  Although our theory does not provide deep insights into which, if any, is most

=== Page 24 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           190     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 likely to be correct, it does make strong claims that are related to this issue.
                                 First, although it allows for the possibility of broad categories or gradients of
                                 organization, it suggests that it is unlikely that different classes of information
                                 will be represented in a modular, or discretely localized, form. Complex behavior
                                 requiresthatwerecognizeandrespondtorelationshipsacrossdiversedimensions,
                                 andtherolewehaveascribedtothePFCinvolvesrepresentingtheserelationships.
                                 Both neurophysiological (Asaad et al 1998, Bichot et al 1996, Quintana & Fuster
                                 1992,Raineretal1998a,Raoetal1997,Watanabe1990,White&Wise1999)and
                                 neuorimaging(Cohen2000,Nystrometal2000,Prabhakaranetal2000)ﬁndings
                                 support this view, which suggests that most regions of the PFC can respond to a
                                 variety of different types of information.
                                   Second, our theory suggests that learning will play an important role in the
                                 formation of representations in the PFC and, thus, may have an important inﬂu-
                                 enceonrepresentationalorganization.Thishasbeenillustratedinacomputational
                                 model of the PFC. Braver et al (1996) trained a network on a “spatial” memory
                                 task and an “object” memory task. The PFC module included some units with
                                 projectionsfrombothspatialandobjectpathways,andsomeunitswithprojections
                                 fromonlyoneortheother. Whenthenetworkwastrainedoneachtaskseparately,
                                 the PFC module relied primarily on the segregated location units and object units
                                 to perform the task. When training on the tasks was intermixed, the activity and
                                 number of the multimodal units were increased. This result has found support in
                                 empirical studies. Evidence of segregation in the PFC by stimulus domain has
                                 beenreportedbystudiesthatseparatetrainingofdifferentstimulusattributesorin
                                 monkeyspassivelyviewingstimuli(i.e. intasksthatdonotengagePFCfunction)
                                 (O Scalaidhe et al 1997, Wilson et al 1993). Evidence for PFC integration has
                                 comefromtasks in which stimulus domains are intermixed or their integration is
                                 relevant (Asaad et al 1998, Bichot et al 1996, Fuster et al 1982, Prabhakaran et al
                                 2000, Rainer et al 1998a, Rao et al 1997, White & Wise 1999).
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.MonitoringandtheAllocationofControl
                                 Previous discussion has focused on the need to appropriately update representa-
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgtions in the PFC as new goals arise and new rules are applied. However, as noted
                                 earlier, people also show a facility for adapting the degree of control they allocate
                                 to a task. For example, you pay closer attention to the road on a dark and rainy
                                 night than on a bright, sunny day. Such adjustments are adaptive, in view of the
                                 well-recognized capacity limits on cognitive control (discussed below). In our
                                 model,suchadjustmentswouldcorrespondtostrengthofthePFCpatternofactiv-
                                 ity (e.g. the strength of the color unit in the Stroop model). A stronger pattern of
                                 activity within the PFC produces stronger biasing effects for a particular pathway,
                                 but possibly at the expense of other ones (e.g. through competition among PFC
                                 representations). Recent studies have suggested that the allocation of control may
                                 depend on signals from the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) that detect conﬂict in
                                 processing (e.g. Carter et al 1998, 2000; Botvinick et al 1999). Drawing on our

=== Page 25 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           191
                                  train track analogy, conﬂict occurs when two trains are destined to cross tracks at
                                  the same time. In neural terms, this corresponds to the coactivation of competing
                                  (i.e. mutually inhibitory) sets of units (e.g. for the responses “red” and “green”
                                  in the Stroop task). Such conﬂict produces uncertainly in processing, and an in-
                                  creased probability of errors. Thus, conﬂict signals the need for the allocation
                                  of additional control. Modeling work (M Botvinick, TS Brauer, CS Carter, DM
                                  Barch, JD Cohen, submitted for publication) has shown that coupling the conﬂict
                                  signal (detected by ACC)toadjustmentsintheallocationofcontrol(ampliﬁcation
                                  of PFC pattern of activity) can accurately simulate trial-based adjustments that
                                  subjects make in their behavior in experimental tasks (e.g. Botvinick et al 1999,
                                  Gratton et al 1992, Laming 1968, Logan et al 1983, Tzelgov et al 1992).
                                    The tight coupling of conﬂict detection and allocation of control may explain
                                  the pervasive ﬁnding of coactivation of the PFC and the ACC in most neuroimag-
                                  ing studies (Owen & Duncan 2000). However, the distinct roles of the PFC and
                                  ACCareillustrated by a dissociation of their activity in a recent functional mag-
                                  netic resonance imaging study by MacDonald et al (2000), using an instructed
                                  version of the Stroop task (Figure 5). In each trial, subjects were given a cue
                                  indicating whether they were to name the color or read the word in the subsequent
                                  display. The cue was followed by a delay of several seconds, and then either a
                                  congruent or a conﬂict stimulus was displayed. Figure 5 shows that during the
                                  delay, increasing activity was observed within a region of the DL PFC, greater
                                  for color naming (the more conrol demanding task) than word reading. There
                                  wasnodifferentialactivationobservedwithinACCduringthisperiod.Incontrast,
                                  strong activation was observed in ACC during the period of stimulus presenta-
                                  tion and responding. This activity was greater for conﬂict than congruent stimuli.
                                  There was no differential response for these trial types within PFC during this
                                  period. These ﬁndings provide strong support for several of the hypotheses we
                                  have discussed: The demands for control are associated with an increase in PFC
                                  activity; tasks demanding greater control elicit stronger activity within the PFC;
                                  andtheACCrespondsselectivelytoconﬂictinprocessing. However,furtherwork
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.is needed to establish the causal relationship between detection of conﬂict within
                                  the ACC and the augmentation of control by the PFC.
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.org
                            MechanismsofActiveMaintenance
                                  OurtheoryofthePFC,likemanyothers,emphasizesitscapacityforactive main-
                                  tenance. However, there has been relatively little empirical research on the mech-
                                  anismsresponsibleforsustainedactivity. There are a number of theoretical possi-
                                  bilities, which can be roughly divided into two classes: cellular and circuit based.
                                  Cellularmodelsproposeneuronbistabilityasthebasisofsustainedactivity,which
                                  is dependent on the biophysical properties of individual cells. The transitions be-
                                  tween states are triggered by inputs to the PFC but maintained via the activation
                                  of speciﬁc voltage-dependent conductances (Wang 1999). Circuit-based models,
                                  on the other hand, propose that the recirculation of activity through closed (or

=== Page 26 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                           192     MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 “recurrent”) loops of interconnected neurons, or attractor networks (Hopﬁeld
                                 1982), support self-sustained activity (Zipser et al 1993). These loops could be
                                 intrinsic to the PFC (Pucak et al 1996, Melchitzky et al 1998), or they might in-
                                 volve other structures, such as the cortex-striatal-globus pallidus-thalamus-cortex
                                 loops(Alexanderetal1996).Ineithercase,itshouldbenotedthatamechanismis
                                 neededforregulating the updating of activity within the PFC, as discussed above.
                           CapacityLimitsofControl
                                 A better understanding of the mechanisms underlying active maintenance may
                                 provide insight into one of the most perplexing properties of cognitive control:
                                 its severely limited capacity. This has long been recognized in cognitive psychol-
                                 ogy (Broadbent 1958, Posner & Snyder 1975, Shiffrin & Schneider 1977) and is
                                 painfully apparent to anyone who has tried to talk on the phone and read e-mail
                                 at the same time. It is important to distinguish between this form of capacity,
                                 which has to do with how many representations can be actively maintained at the
                                 sametime, and the issue of representational power discussed above, which has to
                                 do with the range of representations that are available to draw from in the PFC.
                                 It may also be important to distinguish the capacity limits of cognitive control
                                 from those of short-term storage of item information (e.g. verbal or visual short
                                 term memory) (Miller 1956, Baddeley 1986). Limits of control presumably re-
                                 ﬂect properties of PFC function. The limited capacity of short-term memory may
                                 involve mechanisms (e.g. articulatory rehearsal) and structures (e.g. sustained ac-
                                 tivity in posterior cortical areas) that are not central to cognitive control, and that
                                 mayormaynotrelyonPFCfunction. Thecapacitylimitsofcognitivecontrolhave
                                 been used to explain many features of human cognition (e.g. Cowen 1988, Engle
                                 et al 1999, Just & Carpenter 1992, Posner & Snyder 1975, Shiffrin & Schneider
                                 1977). However, to date, no theory has provided an explanation of the capacity
                                 limitationitself. Thiscouldreﬂectaninherentphysiologicalconstraint,suchasthe
                                 energetic requirements of actively maintaining representations in the PFC. More
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.likely, it reﬂects fundamental computational properties of the system, such as an
                                 inherentlimitonthenumberofrepresentationsthatcanbeactivelymaintainedand
                                 kept independent of one another within an attractor network (e.g. Usher & Cohen
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.org1999). In any event, capacity constraints are a sine qua non of cognitive control
                                 and, therefore, provide an important benchmark for theories that seek to explain
                                 its underlying mechanisms.
                           Prospective Control and Planning
                                 Perhaps the most impressive feature of human cognition is its ability to plan for
                                 the future. We often forgo pursuing a given goal until a more appropriate time.
                                 Active maintenance cannot account for this. When we plan in the morning to go
                                 to the grocery story on the way home from work, it seems unlikely that we ac-
                                 tively maintain this information in the PFC throughout the day. More likely, this
                                 information is stored elsewhere and then activated at the appropriate time. This

=== Page 27 ===
                 P1: FXZ
                 January 12, 2001     14:38     Annual Reviews      AR121-07
                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION           193
                                  may involve interactions between the PFC and other brain systems capable of
                                  rapid learning, such as the hippocampus (cf Cohen & O’Reilly 1996, O’Reilly &
                                  McClelland 1994). Thus, it is possible that the hippocampus rapidly encodes an
                                  association between the desired goal representation(s) within the PFC (e.g. go to
                                  thegrocerystore)andfeaturesofthecircumstanceunderwhichthegoalshouldbe
                                  evoked(e.g. commutinghome). Then,asthesecircumstancesarise,theappropri-
                                  ate representation within the PFC is associatively activated, guiding performance
                                  inaccordwiththegoalanditsassociatedrules(e.g.turningrightatthelighttoward
                                  the store rather than the habitual left toward home). Neurophysiological studies
                                  suggestthatthePFCisimportantfortheabilitytoprospectivelyactivatelong-term
                                  memories (Rainer et al 1999, Tomita et al 1999). However, the detailed nature of
                                  such interactions, and their relationship to the dopaminergic gating and learning
                                  mechanisms described above, remain to be fully speciﬁed.
                            CONCLUSIONS
                                  Oneofthegreatmysteries of the brain is cognitive control. How can interactions
                                  between millions of neurons result in behavior that is coordinated and appears
                                  willful and voluntary? There is consensus that it depends on the PFC, but there
                                  has been little understanding of the neural mechanisms that endow it with the
                                  properties needed for executive control. Here, we have suggested that this stems
                                  from several critical features of the PFC: the ability of experience to modify its
                                  distinctive anatomy; its wide-ranginginputsandintrinsicconnectionsthatprovide
                                  asubstratesuitableforsynthesizingandrepresentingdiverseformsofinformation
                                  needed to guide performance in complex tasks; its capacity for actively maintain-
                                  ingsuchrepresentations;anditsregulationbybrainstemneuromodulatorysystems
                                  that provide a meansforappropriatelyupdatingtheserepresentationsandlearning
                                  when to do so. We have noted that depending on their target of inﬂuence, rep-
                                  resentations in the PFC can function variously as attentional templates, rules, or
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.goals by providing top-down bias signals to other parts of the brain that guide the
                                  ﬂow of activity along the pathways needed to perform a task. We have pointed
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgto a rapidly accumulating and diverse body of evidence that supports this view,
                                  including ﬁndings from neurophysiological, neuroanatomical, human behavioral
                                  and neuroimaging, and computational modeling studies.
                                    Thetheorywehavedescribedprovidesaframeworkwithinwhichtoformulate
                                  hypotheses about the speciﬁc mechanisms underlying the role of the PFC in cog-
                                  nitive control. We have reviewed a number of these, some of which have begun to
                                  take explicit form in computational models. We have also provided a sampling of
                                  themanyquestionsthatremainaboutthesemechanismsandthefunctioningofthe
                                  PFC.Regardlessofwhethertheparticularhypotheseswehaveoutlinedaccurately
                                  describe PFC function, they offer an example of how neurally plausible mecha-
                                  nisms can exhibit the properties of self-organization and self-regulation required
                                  to account for cognitive control without recourse to a “homunculus.” At the very

=== Page 28 ===
                     P1: FXZ
                     January 12, 2001        14:38       Annual Reviews          AR121-07
                                194       MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                      least, we hope that they provide some useful examples of how the use of a com-
                                      putational and empirical framework, in an effort to be mechanistically explicit,
                                      can provide valuable leads in this conceptually demanding pursuit. We believe
                                      that future efforts to address the vexing, but important, questions surrounding PFC
                                      function and cognitive control will beneﬁt by ever tighter coupling of neurobio-
                                      logical experiments and detailed computational analysis and modeling.
                                ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
                                      The order of authorship was arbitrarily determined; both authors made equal
                                      contributions to the research and preparation of this manuscript. Our work has
                                      been supported by grants from the NINDS, the NIMH, the RIKEN-MIT Neuro-
                                      scienceResearchCenter,thePewCharitableTrusts,theMcKnightFoundation,the
                                      Whitehall Foundation, the John Merck Fund, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and
                                      NARSAD.WethankWaelAsaad,MarkHisted,JonathanWallis,RichardWehby,
                                      and Marlene Wicherski for valuable comments on this manuscript. EKM would
                                      also like to thank Wael Asaad for valuable conversations. JDC would like to thank
                                      BJCaseyandLeighNystromforthoughtfuldiscussionsandcommentsregarding
                                      this manuscript, as well as Todd Braver, David Noelle, and Randy O’Reilly, with
                                      whommanyofthetheoretical ideas presented in this article were developed.
                                            Visit the Annual Reviews home page at www.AnnualReviews.org
                                LITERATURECITED
                                Alexander GE, Delong MR, Strick PL. 1986.        Baddeley A. 1986. Working Memory. Oxford:
                                  Parallel organization of functionally segre-      Clarendon
                                  gated circuits linking basal ganglia and cor-  Baker SC, Rogers RD, Owen AM, Frith CD,
                                  tex. Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 9:357–81                Dolan RJ, et al. 1996. Neural systems en-
                                AmaralDG,PriceJL.1984.Amygdalo-cortical             gagedbyplanning: aPETstudyoftheTower
                                  projections in the monkey (Macaca fascicu-        of London Task. Neuropsychologia 34:515–
                         by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.laris). J. Comp. Neurol. 230:465–9626
                                AndersonJR.1983.TheArchitectureofCogni-          BanichMT,MilhamMP,AtchleyR,CohenNJ,
                                  tion. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Univ. Press          WebbA,etal.2000.Prefrontalregionsplaya
                       Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgAndersonKC,AsaadWF,WallisJD,MillerEK.predominant role in imposing an attentional
                                  1999.Simultaneousrecordingsfrommonkey             “set”: evidencefromfMRI.Cogn.BrainRes.
                                  prefrontal (PF) and posterior parietal (PP)       In press
                                  cortices during visual search. Soc. Neurosci.  Barbas H, De Olmos J. 1990. Projections from
                                  Abstr. 25:885                                     the amygdala to basoventral and mediodor-
                                Asaad WF, Rainer G, Miller EK. 1998. Neural         sal prefrontal regions in the rhesus monkey.
                                  activity in the primate prefrontal cortex dur-    J. Comp. Neurol. 300:549–71
                                  ing associative learning. Neuron 21:1399–      BarbasH,PandyaD.1991.Patternsofconnec-
                                  407                                               tions of the prefrontal cortex in the rhesus
                                Asaad WF, Rainer G, Miller EK. 2000. Task-          monkeyassociatedwithcorticalarchitecture.
                                  speciﬁc neural activity in the primate pre-       In Frontal Lobe Function and Dysfunction,
                                  frontal cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 84:451–59        ed. HS Levin, HM Eisenberg, AL Benton,

=== Page 29 ===
                     P1: FXZ
                     January 12, 2001         14:38       Annual Reviews           AR121-07
                                                                                             PREFRONTALFUNCTION                 195
                                    pp. 35–58. New York: Oxford Univ. Press          Carter CS, Braver TS, Barch DM, Botvinick
                                  Barbas H, Pandya DN. 1989. Architecture and          MM, Noll D, Cohen JD. 1998. Anterior
                                    intrinsic connections of the prefrontal cor-       cingulate cortex, error detection, and the
                                    tex in the rhesus monkey. J. Comp. Neurol.         online monitoring of performance. Science
                                    286:353–75                                         280:747–49
                                  BaroneP,JosephJP.1989.Prefrontalcortexand          Carter CS, MacdonaldAM,BotvinickM,Ross
                                    spatial sequencing in macaque monkey.Exp.          LL, Stenger VA, et al. 2000. Parsing execu-
                                    Brain Res. 78:447–64                               tive processes: strategic vs. evaluative func-
                                  Bates JF, Goldman-Rakic PS. 1993. Prefrontal         tions of the anterior cingulate cortex. Proc.
                                    connectionsofmedialmotorareasintherhe-             Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97:1944–48
                                    sus monkey. J. Comp. Neurol. 336:211–28          Casey BJ, Forman SD, Franzen P, Berkowitz
                                  Bechara A, Damasio AR, Damasio H, Ander-             A, Braver TS, et al. 2000. Sensitivity of pre-
                                    son SW. 1994. Insensitivity to future con-         frontalcortextochangesintargetprobability:
                                    sequences following damage to human pre-           a functional MRI study. Hum. Brain Mapp.
                                    frontal cortex. Cognition 50:7–15                  In press
                                  Bechara A, Damasio H, Tranel D, Damasio            Chafee MV, Goldman-Rakic PS. 2000. In-
                                    AR. 1997. Deciding advantageously before           activation of parietal and prefrontal cortex
                                    knowing the advantageous strategy. Science         reveals interdependence of neural activity
                                    275:1293–95                                        during memory-guided saccades. J. Neuro-
                                  Bianchi L. 1922. The Mechanism of the Brain          physiol. 83:1550–66
                                    andtheFunctionoftheFrontalLobes.Edin-            Chao LL, Knight RT. 1997. Prefrontal deﬁcits
                                    burgh: Livingstone                                 inattentionandinhibitorycontrolwithaging.
                                  BichotNP,SchallJD,ThompsonKG.1996.Vi-                Cereb. Cortex 7:63–9
                                    sual feature selectivity in frontal eye ﬁelds    Chavis DA, Pandya DN. 1976. Further obser-
                                    induced by experience in mature macaques.          vations on cortico-frontal connections in the
                                    Nature 381:697–99                                  rhesus monkey. Brain Res. 117:369–86
                                  BotvinickM,NystromLE,FissellK,CarterCS,            Cohen JD. 2000. Special issue: functional to-
                                    CohenJD.1999.Conﬂictmonitoring versus              pography of prefrontal cortex. Neuroimage
                                    selection-for-actioninanteriorcingulatecor-        11:378–79
                                    tex. Nature 402:179–81                           Cohen JD, Barch DM, Carter CS, Servan-
                                  Braver TS, Cohen JD, eds. 2000. On the Con-          Schreiber D. 1999. Schizophrenic deﬁcits in
                                    trol of Control: The Role of Dopamine in           the processing of context: converging evi-
                          by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.Regulating Prefrontal Function and Work-dence from three theoretically motivated
                                    ing Memory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.              cognitive tasks. J. Abnorm. Psychol. 108:
                                    In press                                           120–33
                        Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgBraver TS, Cohen JD, Servan-Schreiber D.Cohen JD, Braver TS, O’Reilly RC. 1996. A
                                    1995. A computational model of prefrontal          computationalapproachtoprefrontalcortex,
                                    cortexfunction.InAdvancesinNeuralInfor-            cognitivecontrol,andschizophrenia: Recent
                                    mation Processing Systems, ed. DS Touret-          developmentsandcurrentchallenges.Philos.
                                    zky, G Tesauro, TK Leen, pp. 141–48. Cam-          Trans. Roy. Soc. London B. 351:1515–1527
                                    bridge, MA: MIT Press                            CohenJD,DunbarK,McClellandJL.1990.On
                                  Broadbent DE. 1958. Perception and Commu-            thecontrolofautomaticprocesses: aparallel
                                    nication. London: Pergamon                         distributed processing account of the Stroop
                                  BruceC,DesimoneR,GrossCG.1981.Visual                 effect. Psychol. Rev. 97:332–61
                                    properties of neurons in a polysensory area      Cohen JD, Forman SD, Braver TS, Casey BJ,
                                    in superior temporal sulcus of the macaque.        Servan-Schreiber D, Noll DC. 1994a. Ac-
                                    J. Neurophysiol. 46:369–84                         tivation of prefrontal cortex in a nonspatial

=== Page 30 ===
                    P1: FXZ
                    January 12, 2001        14:38       Annual Reviews         AR121-07
                               196       MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                 working memory task with functional MRI.         nismsofselectivevisualattention.Annu.Rev.
                                 Hum.BrainMapp.1:293–304                          Neurosci. 18:193–222
                               Cohen JD, O’Reilly RC. 1996. A preliminary       Diamond A. 1988. Abilities and neural mech-
                                 theory of the interactions between the pre-      anisms underlying AB performance. Child
                                 frontal cortex and hippocampus that con-         Dev. 59:523–27
                                 tribute to planning and prospective memory.    Diamond A, Goldman-Rakic PS. 1989. Com-
                                 In Prospective Memory: Theory and Appli-         parison of human infants and rhesus mon-
                                 cations, ed. M Brandimonte, G Einstein, M        keys on Piaget’s A-not-B task: evidence for
                                 McDaniel. Hillsdale, New Jersey: Erlbaum         dependenceondorsolateralprefrontalcortex.
                               CohenJD,Perlstein WM, Braver TS, Nystrom           Exp. Brain Res. 74:24–40
                                 LE,NollDC,etal.1997.Temporaldynamics           Dias R, Robbins TW, Roberts AC. 1996a. Dis-
                                 ofbrainactivationduringaworkingmemory            sociationinprefrontalcortexofaffectiveand
                                 task. Nature 386:604–8                           attentional shifts. Nature 380:69–72
                               Cohen JD, Romero RD, Farah MJ, Servan-           Dias R, Robbins TW, Roberts AC. 1996b. Pri-
                                 Schreiber D. 1994b. Mechanisms of spatial        mateanalogueoftheWisconsinCardSorting
                                 attention: the relation of macrostructure to     Test: effectsofexcitotoxiclesionsofthepre-
                                 microstructure in parietal neglect. J. Cogn.     frontal cortex in the marmoset. Behav. Neu-
                                 Neurosci. 6:377–87                               rosci. 110:872–86
                               Cohen JD, Servan-Schreiber D. 1992. Con-         Dias R, Robbins TW, Roberts AC. 1997. Dis-
                                 text, cortex and dopamine: a connection-         sociable forms of inhibitory control within
                                 ist approach to behavior and biology in          prefrontal cortex with an analog of the Wis-
                                 schizophrenia. Psychol. Rev. 99:45–77            consin Card Sort Test: restriction to novel
                               Cohen JD, Servan-Schreiber D, McClelland           situations and independence from “on-line”
                                 JL. 1992. A parallel distributed processing      processing. J. Neurosci 17:9285–97
                                 approach to automaticity. Am. J. Psychol.      di Pellegrino G, Wise SP. 1991. A neurophysi-
                                 105:239–69                                       ological comparison of three distinct regions
                               Constantinidis C, Steinmetz MA. 1996. Neu-         oftheprimatefrontallobe.Brain114:951–78
                                 ronal activity in posterior parietal area 7a   Dunbar K, Sussman D. 1995. Toward a cog-
                                 during the delay periods of a spatial mem-       nitive account of frontal lobe function: simu-
                                 ory task. J. Neurophysiol. 76:1352–55            latingfrontallobedeﬁcitsinnormalsubjects.
                               Courtney SM, Ungerleider LG, Keil K, Haxby         Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 769:289–304
                                 JV.1997.Transientandsustainedactivityina       Duncan J. 1986. Disorganization of behaviour
                         by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.distributedneuralsystemforhumanworkingafter frontal lobe damage. Cogn. Neuropsy-
                                 memory.Nature386:608–12                          chol. 3:271–90
                               CowenN.1998.Evolvingconceptionsofmem-            Duncan J, Emslie H, Williams P, Johnson R,
                      Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgory storage, selective attention, and theirFreer C. 1996. Intelligence and the frontal
                                 mutual constraints within the human infor-       lobe: the organization of goal-directed be-
                                 mation processing system. Psychol. Bull.         havior. Cogn. Psychol. 30:257–303
                                 104:163–91                                     Duncan J, Owen AM. 2000. Common regions
                               DehaeneS,ChangeuxJP.1989.Asimplemodel              ofthehumanfrontalloberecruitedbydiverse
                                 of prefrontal cortex function in delayed-        cognitivedemands.TrendsNeurosci.Inpress
                                 response tasks. J. Cogn. Neurosci. 1:244–61    Durstewitz D, Kelc M, Gunturkun O. 1999. A
                               Dehaene S, Changeux JP. 1992. The Wiscon-          neurocomputational theory of the dopamin-
                                 sin card sorting test: theoretical analysis and  ergic modulation of working memory func-
                                 modelinginaneuronalnetwork.Cerebr.Cor-           tions. J. Neurosci. 19:2807–22
                                 tex 1:62–79                                    Durstewitz D, Seamans JK, Sejnowski TJ.
                               Desimone R, Duncan J. 1995. Neural mecha-          2000. Dopamine-mediated stabilization of

=== Page 31 ===
                    P1: FXZ
                    January 12, 2001        14:38       Annual Reviews         AR121-07
                                                                                        PREFRONTALFUNCTION                197
                                   delay-period activity in a network model      Fuster JM. 1989. The Prefrontal Cortex, Vol. 2.
                                   of the prefrontal cortex. J. Neurophysiol.      NewYork: Raven
                                   83:1733–50                                    Fuster JM. 1995. Memory in the Cerebral Cor-
                                Eacott MJ, Gaffan D. 1992. Inferotemporal-         tex. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press
                                   frontal disconnection—the uncinate fascicle   Fuster JM, Alexander GE. 1971. Neuron ac-
                                   and visual associative learning in monkeys.     tivity related to short-term memory. Science
                                   Eur. J. Neurosci. 4:1320–32                     173:652–54
                                EichenbaumH,DudchenkoP,WoodE,Shapiro             Fuster JM, BauerRH,JerveyJP.1982.Cellular
                                   M,TanilaH.1999.Thehippocampus,mem-              discharge in the dorsolateral prefrontal cor-
                                   ory, and place cells: Is it spatial memory or   tex of the monkey in cognitive tasks. Exp.
                                   a memoryspace? Neuron 23:209–26                 Neurol. 77:679–94
                                EngelRW,KaneM,TuholskiS.1999a.Individ-           Fuster JM, Bauer RH, Jervey JP. 1985. Func-
                                   ual differences in working memory capacity      tional interactions between inferotemporal
                                   and what they tell us about controlled atten-   and prefrontal cortex in a cognitive task.
                                   tion, general ﬂuid intelligence, and functions  Brain Res. 330:299–307
                                   of the prefrontal cortex. In Mechanisms of    Fuster JM, Jervey JP. 1981. Inferotemporal
                                   Active Maintenance and Executive Control,       neurons distinguish and retain behaviorally
                                   ed.AMiyake,PShah.NewYork:Cambridge              relevant features of visual stimuli. Science
                                   Univ. Press                                     212:952–55
                                Engel RW, Tuholski SW, Laughlin JE, Con-         Gaffan D, Harrison S. 1988. Inferotemporal-
                                   way AR. 1999b. Working memory, short-           frontal disconnection and fornix transection
                                   term memory, and general ﬂuid intelligence:     in visuomotor conditional learning by mon-
                                   a latent-variable approach. J. Exp. Psychol.    keys. Behav. Brain Res. 31:149–63
                                   Gen. 128:309–31                               Gathercole SE. 1994. Neuropsychology and
                                Ferrera VP, Cohen J, Lee BB. 1999. Activ-          working memory: a review. Neuropsychol-
                                   ity of prefrontal neurons during location and   ogy 8:494–505
                                   color delayed matching tasks. NeuroReport     Gershberg FB, Shimamura AP. 1995. Impaired
                                   10:1315–22                                      use of organizational strategies in free recall
                                Ferrier D. 1876. The Functions of the Brain.       following frontal lobe damage. Neuropsy-
                                   London: Smith, Elder                            chologia 13:1305–33
                                Frith CD, Friston K, Liddle PF, Frackowiak       GnadtJW,AndersenRA.1988.Memoryrelated
                                   RSJ. 1991. Willed action and the prefrontal     motor planning activity in posterior parietal
                         by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.cortex in man: a study with PET. Proc. R.cortex of macaque. Exp. Brain Res. 70:216–
                                   Soc. London Ser. B 244:241–46                   20
                                Funahashi S, Bruce CJ, Goldman-Rakic PS.         GobbelJR.1995.Abiophysically-basedmodel
                      Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.org1989. Mnemonic coding of visual space inof the neostriatum as a reconﬁgurable net-
                                   the monkey’s dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.    work. Proc. Swed. Conf. Connectionism,
                                   J. Neurophysiol. 61:331–49                      2nd. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum
                                FusterJM.1973.Unitactivityinprefrontalcor-       Goldman PS, Nauta WJ. 1976. Autoradio-
                                   tex during delayed-response performance:        graphic demonstration of a projection from
                                   neuronal correlates of transient memory. J.     prefrontal association cortex to the superior
                                   Neurophysiol. 36:61–78                          colliculus in the rhesus monkey. Brain Res.
                                Fuster JM. 1980. The Prefrontal Cortex.New         116:145–49
                                   York: Raven                                   Goldman-RakicPS.1987.Circuitryofprimate
                                Fuster JM. 1985. The prefrontal cortex, medi-      prefrontal cortex and regulation of behavior
                                   ator of cross-temporal contingencies. Hum.      byrepresentationalmemory.InHandbookof
                                   Neurobiol. 4:169–79                             Physiology:TheNervousSystem,ed.FPlum,

=== Page 32 ===
                     P1: FXZ
                     January 12, 2001          14:38        Annual Reviews          AR121-07
                                 198        MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                    pp. 373–417. Bethesda, MD: Am. Physiol.             the Basal Ganglia. Cambridge, MA: MIT
                                    Soc.                                                Press
                                 Goldman-RakicPS.1996.Theprefrontalland-             Janowsky JS, Shimamura AP, Kritchevsky M,
                                    scape: implications of functional architec-         Squire LR. 1989. Cognitive impairment fol-
                                    ture for understanding human mentation and          lowing frontal lobe damage and its rele-
                                    the central executive. Philos. Trans. R. Soc.       vance to human amnesia. Behav. Neurosci.
                                    LondonSer. B 351:1445–53                            103:548–60
                                 Goldman-Rakic PS, Schwartz ML. 1982. In-            Jones EG, Powell TPS. 1970. An anatomical
                                    terdigitation of contralateral and ipsilateral      studyofconvergingsensorypathwayswithin
                                    columnar projections to frontal association         the cerebral cortex of the monkey. Brain
                                    cortex in primates. Science 216:755–57              93:793–820
                                 Goldman-Rakic PS, Selemon LD, Schwartz              Just MA, Carpenter PA. 1992. A capacity the-
                                    ML. 1984. Dual pathways connecting the              oryofcomprehension:individualdifferences
                                    dorsolateral prefrontal cortex with the hip-        in working memory. Psychol. Rev. 99:122–
                                    pocampal formation and parahippocampal              49
                                    cortex in the rhesus monkey. Neuroscience        Knight RT. 1984. Decreased response to novel
                                    12:719–43                                           stimuli after prefrontal lesions in man. Clin.
                                 Gould E, Reeves AJ, Graziano MS, Gross CG.             Neurophysiol. 59:9–20
                                    1999.Neurogenesisintheneocortexofadult           Knight RT. 1997. Distributed cortical network
                                    primates. Science 286:548–52                        for visual attention. J. Cogn. Neurosci. 9:75–
                                 Grafman J. 1994. Alternative frameworks for            91
                                    theconceptualizationofprefrontalfunctions.       Koechlin E, Basso G, Pietrini P, Panzer S,
                                    In Handbook of Neuropsychology, ed. F               Grafman J. 1999. The role of the anterior
                                    Boller, J Grafman, pp. 187. Amsterdam: El-          prefrontal cortex in humancognition.Nature
                                    sevier                                              399:148–51
                                 GrattonG,ColesMGH,DonchinE.1992.Opti-               KubotaK,NikiH.1971.Prefrontalcorticalunit
                                    mizingtheuseofinformation: strategiccon-            activity and delayed alternation performance
                                    trol of activation of responses. J. Exp. Psy-       in monkeys. J. Neurophysiol. 34:337–47
                                    chol. 121:480–506                                Laming DRJ. 1968. Information Theory of
                                 Halsband U, Passingham RE. 1985. Premotor              Choice-Reaction Times. London: Academic
                                    cortex and the conditions for movement in        LeonMI,ShadlenMN.1999.Effectofexpected
                                    monkeys. Behav. Brain Res. 18:269–76                reward magnitude on the response of neu-
                          by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.HecaenH,AlbertML.1978.HumanNeuropsy-rons in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of
                                    chology. New York: Wiley                            the macaque. Neuron 24:415–25
                                 Hollerman JR, Schultz W. 1998. Dopamine             Levine B, Stuss DT, Milberg WP, Alexander
                        Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgneurons report an error in the temporal pre-MP, Schwartz M, Macdonald R. 1998. The
                                    diction of reward during learning. Nat. Neu-        effects of focal and diffuse brain damage on
                                    rosci. USA 1:304–9                                  strategy application: evidence from focal le-
                                 Hopﬁeld JJ. 1982. Neural networks and physi-           sions, traumatic brain injury and normal ag-
                                    calsystemswithemergentcollectivecompu-              ing. J. Int. Neuropsychol. Soc. 4:247–64
                                    tational abilities. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA   Levine DS, Prueitt PS. 1989. Modeling some
                                    79:2554–58                                          effects of frontal lobe damage-novelty and
                                 Hoshi E, Shima K, Tanji J. 1998. Task-                 perseveration. Neural Networks 2:103–16
                                    dependent selectivity of movement-related        Lhermitte F. 1983. “Utilization behaviour” and
                                    neuronal activity in the primate prefrontal         its relation to lesions of the frontal lobes.
                                    cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 80:3392–97                 Brain 106:237–55
                                 Houck JC. 1995. Models of Information in            Logan GD, Zbrodoff NJ, Fostey ARW. 1983.

=== Page 33 ===
                    P1: FXZ
                    January 12, 2001        14:38       Annual Reviews         AR121-07
                                                                                        PREFRONTALFUNCTION                199
                                   Costsandbeneﬁtsofstrategyconstructionin         ory in prefrontal cortex of the macaque. J.
                                   a speeded discrimination task. Mem. Cogn.       Neurosci. 16:5154–67
                                   11:485–93                                     Miller EK, Li L, Desimone R. 1993. Activity
                                London ED, Ernst M, Grant S, Bonson K,             of neurons in anterior inferior temporal cor-
                                   Weinstein A. 2000. Orbitofrontal cortex and     tex during a short-term memorytask.J.Neu-
                                   human drug abuse:      functional imaging.      rosci. 13:1460–78
                                   Cereb. Cortex 10:334–42                       Miller GA. 1956. The magical number seven
                                LuMT,Preston JB, Strick PL. 1994. Intercon-        plusorminustwo:somelimitsonourcapac-
                                   nections between the prefrontal cortex and      ity for processing information. Psychol. Rev.
                                   the premotor areas in the frontal lobe. J.      63:81–97
                                   Comp.Neurol. 341:375–92                       Milner B. 1963. Effects of different brain le-
                                Luria AR. 1969. Frontal lobe syndromes. In         sions on card sorting. Arch. Neurol. 9:90
                                   Handbook of Clinical Neurology, ed. PJ        Mirenowicz J, Schultz W. 1994. Importance
                                   Vinken, GW Bruyn, pp. 725–57. New York:         of unpredictability for reward responses in
                                   Elsevier                                        primate dopamine neurons. J. Neurophysiol.
                                MacDonaldAW,CohenJD,StengerVA,Carter               72:1024–27
                                   CS. 2000. Dissociating the role of dorso-     MirenowiczJ,SchultzW.1996.Preferentialac-
                                   lateral prefrontal cortex and anterior cin-     tivationofmidbraindopamineneuronsbyap-
                                   gulate cortex in cognitive control. Science     petitive rather than aversive stimuli. Nature
                                   288:1835–38                                     379:449–51
                                MacLeodCM.1991.Halfacenturyofresearch            Mishkin M. 1964. Perseveration of central sets
                                   on the Stroop effect: an integrative review.    after frontal lesions in monkeys. In The
                                   Psychol. Bull. 109:163–203                      Frontal Granular Cortex and Behavior, ed.
                                McClellandJL,McNaughtonBL,O’ReillyRC.              JMWarren,KAbert,pp.219–41.NewYork:
                                   1995.Whytherearecomplementarylearning           McGraw-Hill
                                   systems in the hippocampus and neocortex:     Miyashita Y, Chang HS. 1988. Neuronal cor-
                                   insights from the successes and failures of     relate of pictorial short-term memory in the
                                   connectionist models of learning and mem-       primate temporal cortex. Nature 331:68–70
                                   ory. Psychol. Rev. 102:419–57                 MontaguePR,DayanP,SejnowskiTJ.1996.A
                                Melchitzky DS, Sesack SR, Pucak ML, Lewis          frameworkformesencephalicdopaminesys-
                                   DA.1998.Synaptictargetsofpyramidalneu-          tems based on predictive Hebbian learning.
                                   rons providing intrinsic horizontal connec-     J. Neurosci. 16:1936–47
                         by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.tions in monkey prefrontal cortex. J. Comp.Mozer MC. 1991. The Perception of Multiple
                                   Neurol. 390:211–24                              Objects: A Connectionist Approach. Cam-
                                Miller EK. 1999. The prefrontal cortex: com-       bridge, MA: MIT Press
                      Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgplex neural properties for complex behavior.MurrayEA,BusseyTJ,WiseSP.2000.Roleof
                                   Neuron 22:15–17                                 prefrontalcortexinanetworkforarbitraryvi-
                                Miller EK. 2000. The neural basis of top-down      suomotor mapping. Exp. Brain Res. In press
                                   control of visual attention in the prefrontal Newell A, Simon HA. 1972. Human Problem
                                   cortex. In Attention and Performance, ed. S     Solving. EnglewoodCliffs,NJ:PrenticeHall
                                   Monsell, J Driver, 18:In press. Cambridge,    NichelliP,GrafmanJ,PietriniP,AlwayD,Car-
                                   MA:MITPress                                     ton JC, Miletich R. 1994. Brain activity in
                                MillerEK,DesimoneR.1994.Parallelneuronal           chess playing. Nature 369:191
                                   mechanismsforshort-termmemory.Science         Nystrom LE, Braver TS, Sabb FW, Delgado
                                   263:520–22                                      MR, Noll DC, Cohen JD. 2000. Work-
                                Miller EK, Erickson CA, Desimone R. 1996.          ing memory for letters, shapes and loca-
                                   Neural mechanismsofvisualworkingmem-            tions: fMRIevidenceagainststimulus-based

=== Page 34 ===
                     P1: FXZ
                     January 12, 2001        14:38       Annual Reviews          AR121-07
                                200       MILLER ¥ COHEN
                                  regional organization in human prefrontal         VoluntaryAction.Oxford,UK:OxfordUniv.
                                  cortex. Neuroimage. In press                      Press
                                O’Doherty J, Rolls ET, Francis S, Bowtell R,     Perret E. 1974. The left frontal lobe of man and
                                  McGlone F, et al. 2000. Sensory-speciﬁc           the suppression of habitual responses in ver-
                                  satiety-related olfactory activation of the       bal categorical behaviour. Neuropsychologia
                                  human orbitofrontal cortex. NeuroReport           12:323–30
                                  11:893–97                                      Petersen SE, van Mier H, Fiez JA, Raichle ME.
                                O’Reilly RC, Braver TS, Cohen JD. 1999.             1998. The effects of practice on the func-
                                  A biologically-based computational model          tional anatomy of task performance. Proc.
                                  of working memory. In Models of Work-             Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95:853–60
                                  ing Memory: Mechanisms of Active Mainte-       Petrides M. 1982. Motor conditional asso-
                                  nanceandExecutiveControl,ed.AMiyake,              ciative-learning after selective prefrontal le-
                                  PShah.NewYork: CambridgeUniv.Press                sions in the monkey. Behav. Brain Res.
                                O’ReillyRC,McClellandJL.1994.Hippocam-              5:407–13
                                  pal conjunctive coding, storage, and recall:   Petrides M. 1985. Deﬁcits in non-spatial con-
                                  avoiding a tradeoff. Hippocampus 4:661–82         ditional associative learning after periarcu-
                                O’Reilly RC, Munakata Y. 2000. Computa-             ate lesions in the monkey. Behav. Brain Res.
                                  tional Explorations in Cognitive Neurosci-        16:95–101
                                  ence: Understanding the Mind. Cambridge:       PetridesM.1990.Nonspatialconditionallearn-
                                  MITPress                                          ing impaired in patients with unilateral
                                O Scalaidhe SP, Wilson FA, Goldman-Rakic            frontal but not unilateral temporal lobe ex-
                                  PS. 1997. Areal segregation of face-              cisions. Neuropsychologia 28:137–49
                                  processing neurons in prefrontal cortex. Sci-  Petrides M. 1996. Specialized systems for the
                                  ence 278:1135–38                                  processing of mnemonic information within
                                Owen AM, Downes JJ, Sahakian BJ, Polkey             the primate frontal cortex. Philos. Trans. R.
                                  CE,RobbinsTW.1990.Planningandspatial              Soc. London Ser. B 351:1455–61
                                  working memory following frontal lobe le-      Petrides M, Pandya DN. 1984. Projections to
                                  sions in man. Neuropsychologia28:1021–34          the frontal cortex from the posterior parietal
                                OwenAM,EvansAC,Petrides M. 1996. Evi-               region in the rhesus monkey. J. Comp. Neu-
                                  denceforatwo-stagemodelofspatialwork-             rol. 228:105–16
                                  ing memory processing within the lateral       Petrides M, Pandya DN. 1999. Dorsolateral
                                  frontal cortex: a positron emission tomogra-      prefrontal cortex: comparative cytoarchitec-
                         by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.phy study. Cerebr. Cortex 6:31–38tonic analysis in the human and the macaque
                                Pandya DN, Barnes CL. 1987. Architecture            brainandcorticocorticalconnectionpatterns.
                                  and connections of the frontal lobe. In The       Eur. J. Neurosci. 11:1011–36
                       Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgFrontalLobesRevisited,ed.EPerecman,pp.Phaf RH, Van der Heiden AHC, Hudson PTW.
                                  41–72. New York: IRBN                             1990. SLAM: a connectionist model for at-
                                PandyaDN,YeterianEH.1990.Prefrontalcor-             tention in visual selection tasks. Cogn. Psy-
                                  tex in relation to other cortical areas in rhe-   chol. 22:273–341
                                  sus monkey—architecture and connections.       Piaget J. 1954 (1937). The Origins of Intelli-
                                  Prog. Brain Res. 85:63–94                         gence in Children. New York: Basic Books
                                Parker A, Gaffan D. 1998. Memory after           Porrino LJ, Crane AM, Goldman-Rakic PS.
                                  frontal/temporal disconnection in monkeys:        1981. Direct and indirect pathways from the
                                  conditional and non-conditional tasks, uni-       amygdala to the frontal lobe in rhesus mon-
                                  lateral and bilateral frontal lesions. Neu-       keys. J. Comp. Neurol. 198:121–36
                                  ropsychologia 36:259–71                        Posner MI, Snyder CRR. 1975. Attention and
                                Passingham R. 1993. The Frontal Lobes and           cognitive control. In Information Processing

=== Page 35 ===
                      P1: FXZ
                      January 12, 2001          14:38        Annual Reviews           AR121-07
                                                                                                 PREFRONTALFUNCTION                   201
                                      and Cognition, ed. RL Solso. Hillsdale, NJ:          ham RE. 1997. Ventral prefrontal cortex is
                                      Erlbaum                                              not essential for working memory. J. Neu-
                                   PrabhakaranV,NarayananK,ZhaoZ,Gabrieli                  rosci. 17:4829–38
                                      JD. 2000. Integration of diverse information       SchacterDL.1997.Thecognitiveneuroscience
                                      in working memory within the frontal lobe.           ofmemory: perspectivesfromneuroimaging
                                      Nat. Neurosci. 3:85–90                               research. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. London Ser.
                                   Price JL. 1999. Prefrontal cortical networks re-        B352:1689–95
                                      lated to visceral function and mood. Ann. NY       SchmahmannJD,PandyaDN.1997.Anatomic
                                      Acad. Sci. 877:383–96                                organization of the basilar pontine projec-
                                   PucakML,LevittJB,LundJS,LewisDA.1996.                   tions from prefrontal cortices in rhesus mon-
                                      Patterns of intrinsic and associational cir-         key. J. Neurosci. 17:438–58
                                      cuitry in monkey prefrontal cortex. J. Comp.       Schultz W. 1998. Predictive reward signal
                                      Neurol. 376:614–30                                   of dopamine neurons. J. Neurophysiol. 80:
                                   Quintana J, Fuster JM. 1992. Mnemonic                   1–27
                                      and predictive functions of cortical neu-          Schultz W, Apicella P, Ljungberg T. 1993. Re-
                                      rons in a memory task. NeuroReport 3:721–            sponses of monkey dopamine neurons to re-
                                      24                                                   wardandconditionedstimuli during succes-
                                   Rainer G, Asaad WF, Miller EK. 1998a. Mem-              sivestepsoflearningadelayedresponsetask.
                                      oryﬁeldsofneuronsintheprimateprefrontal              J. Neurosci. 13:900–13
                                      cortex.Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.USA95:15008–             Schultz W, Dickinson A. 2000. Neuronal cod-
                                      13                                                   ingofpredictionerrors.Annu.Rev.Neurosci.
                                   Rainer G, Asaad WF, Miller EK. 1998b. Selec-            23:473–500
                                      tiverepresentationofrelevantinformationby          Schultz W, Dayan P, Montague PR. 1997. A
                                      neuronsintheprimateprefrontalcortex.Na-              neural substrate of prediction and reward.
                                      ture 393:577–79                                      Science 275:1593–99
                                   RainerG,RaoSC,MillerEK.1999.Prospective               Seltzer B, Pandya DN. 1989. Frontal lobe con-
                                      coding for objects in the primate prefrontal         nections of the superior temporal sulcus in
                                      cortex. J. Neurosci. 19:5493–505                     therhesusmonkey.J.Comp.Neurol.281:97–
                                   RaoSC,RainerG,MillerEK.1997.Integration                 113
                                      of what and where in the primate prefrontal        Shadmehr R, Holcomb H. 1997. Neural cor-
                                      cortex. Science 276:821–24                           relates of motor memory consolidation. Sci-
                                   Roberts AC, Wallis JD. 2000. Inhibitory con-            ence 277:821–24
                           by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.trol and affective processing in the prefrontalShallice T. 1982. Speciﬁc impairments of plan-
                                      cortex:   neuropsychological studies in the          ning. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. London Ser. B
                                      commonmarmoset. Cerebr. Cortex 10:252–               298:199–209
                         Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.org62Shallice T. 1988. From Neuropsychology to
                                   Rolls ET. 2000. The orbitofrontal cortex and            Mental Structure. Cambridge, UK: Cam-
                                      reward. Cereb. Cortex 10:284–94                      bridge Univ. Press
                                   Romo R, Brody CD, Hernandez A, Lemus                  Shallic T, Burgess P. 1996. The domain of su-
                                      L. 1999. Neuronal correlates of parametric           pervisory processes and temporal organiza-
                                      workingmemoryintheprefrontalcortex.Na-               tion of behaviour.Philos.Trans.R.Soc.Lon-
                                      ture 399:470–73                                      don Ser. B 351:1405–11
                                   Rossi AF, Rotter PS, Desimone R, Ungerleider          Shiffrin RM, Schneider W. 1977. Controlled
                                      LG.1999.Prefrontallesionsproduceimpair-              and automatic information processing: II.
                                      ments in feature-cued attention. Soc. Neu-           Perceptual learning, automatic attending,
                                      rosci. Abstr. 25:3                                   and a general theory. Psychol. Rev. 84:127–
                                   RushworthMF,NixonPD,EacottMJ,Passing-                   90

=== Page 36 ===
                   P1: FXZ
                   January 12, 2001        14:38      Annual Reviews        AR121-07
                              202      MILLER ¥ COHEN
                              Smith EE, Jonides J. 1999. Storage and exec-      gions in the Stroop task. Neuropsychologia
                                utive processes in the frontal lobes. Science   33:341–52
                                283:1657–61                                  WagnerAD.1999.Workingmemorycontribu-
                              Squire LR. 1992. Memory and the hippocam-         tions to human learning and remembering.
                                pus:asynthesisfromﬁndingswithrats,mon-          Neuron 22:19–22
                                keys,andhumans.Psychol.Rev.99:195–231        Wallis JD, Anderson KC, Miller EK. 2000.
                              Stroop JR. 1935. Studies of interference in se-   Neuronal representation of abstract rules in
                                rialverbalreactions.J.Exp.Psychol.18:643–       the orbital and lateral prefrontal cortices
                                62                                              (PFC). Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. In press
                              StussDT,BensonDF.1986.TheFrontalLobes.         WangXJ.1999.Synaptic basis of cortical per-
                                NewYork: Raven                                  sistent activity: the importance of NMDA
                              Swedo SE, Shapiro MB, Grady CL, Cheslow           receptors to working memory. J. Neurosci.
                                DL, Leonard HL, et al. 1989. Cerebral glu-      19:9587–603
                                cose metabolism in childhood-onset OCD.      WatanabeM.1990.Prefrontalunitactivitydur-
                                Arch. Gen. Psychiatr. 46:518–23                 ing associative learning in the monkey. Exp.
                              Tomita   H, Ohbayashi M, Nakahara K,              Brain Res. 80:296–309
                                Hasegawa I, Miyashita Y. 1999. Top-down      WatanabeM.1992.Frontalunitsofthemonkey
                                signal from prefrontal cortex in execu-         coding the associative signiﬁcance of visual
                                tive control of memory retrieval. Nature        andauditorystimuli.Exp.BrainRes.89:233–
                                401:699–703                                     47
                              Treisman A, Gelade G. 1980. A feature inte-    Watanabe M. 1996. Reward expectancy in pri-
                                gration theory of attention. Cogn. Psychol.     mate prefrontal neurons. Nature 382:629–
                                12:97–136                                       32
                              Tremblay L, Hollerman JR, Schultz W. 1998.     WhiteIM,WiseSP.1999.Rule-dependentneu-
                                Modiﬁcations of reward expectation-related      ronal activity in the prefrontal cortex. Exp.
                                neuronal activity during learning in primate    Brain Res. 126:315–35
                                striatum. J. Neurophysiol. 80:964–77         Wilson FAW, O Scalaidhe SP, Goldman-Rakic
                              Tremblay L, Schultz W. 1999. Relative reward      PS. 1993. Dissociation of object and spa-
                                preference in primate orbitofrontal cortex.     tial processing domainsinprimateprefrontal
                                Nature 398:704–8                                cortex. Science 260:1955–58
                              TzelgovJ,HenikA,BergerJ.1992.Controlling       Wise SP, Murray EA, Gerfen CR. 1996. The
                                Stroop effects by manipulating expectations     frontal-basal ganglia system in primates.
                        by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.for color words. Mem. Cogn. 20:727–35Crit. Rev. Neurobiol. 10:317–56
                              Usher M, Cohen JD. 1997. Interference-based    Yamaguchi S, Knight RT. 1991. Anterior and
                                capacity limitations in active memory. Pre-     posterior association cortex contributions
                      Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgsented at Abstr. Psychonom. Soc., Philadel-to the somatosensory P300. J. Neurosci.
                                phia                                            11:2039–54
                              VanHoesenGW,PandyaDN,ButtersN.1972.            ZipserD,KehoeB,LittlewortG,FusterJ.1993.
                                Cortical afferents to the entorhinal cortex     Aspikingnetworkmodelofshort-termactive
                                of the rhesus monkey. Science 175:1471–         memory.13:3406–20
                                73                                           Zola-Morgan S, Squire LR. 1993. Neu-
                              VendrellP,JunqueC,PujolJ,JuradoMA,Molet           roanatomy of memory. Annu. Rev. Neurosci.
                                J, GrafmanJ.1995.Theroleofprefrontalre-         16:547–63

=== Page 37 ===
                 P1: FQP
                 January 15, 2001     12:27     Annual Reviews      AR121-COLOR
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.
                                 Figure2 SchematicdiagramillustratingoursuggestedroleforthePFcortexincognitive
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgcontrol. Shownareprocessingunitsrepresentingcuessuchassensoryinputs,currentmoti-
                                 vationalstate,memories,etc.(C1,C2,andC3),andthoserepresentingtwovoluntaryactions
                                 (e.g., “responses”, R1 and R2). Also shown are internal or “hidden ” units that represent
                                 morecentralstagesofprocessing.ThePFcortexisnotheavilyconnectedwithprimarysen-
                                 sory or motor cortices but instead connected with higher-level “association ” and premotor
                                 cortices. Hence, we illustrate connections between the PFC and the hidden units. Reward
                                 signals foster the formation of a task model, a neural representation that reﬂects the learned
                                 associations between task-relevant information. A subset of the information (e.g., C1 and
                                 C2)canthenevoketheentiremodel,includinginformationabouttheappropriate response
                                 (e.g., R1). Excitatory signals from the PF cortex feeds back to other brain systems to enable
                                 task-relevant neural pathways. Thick lines indicate well-established pathways mediating a
                                 prepotent behavior. Red indicates active units or pathways.

=== Page 38 ===
                 P1: FQP
                 January 15, 2001     12:27     Annual Reviews      AR121-COLOR
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.Figure 4Schematic of the Stroop model. Circles represent processing units, correspond-
                                  ing to a population of neurons assumed to code a given piece of information. Lines repre-
                                  sent connections between units, with heavier ones indicating stronger connections. Looped
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgconnections with small black circles indicate mutual inhibition among units within that
                                  layer (e.g., between the “red” and “green” output units). Adapted from Cohen, Dunbar &
                                  McClelland (1990).
                                  A. No control. Activation of conﬂicting inputs in the two pathways produces a response
                                  associated with the word, due to the stronger connections in the word reading pathway.
                                  B. Presentation of a conﬂict stimulus. The color unit is activated (indicated by the orange
                                  ﬁll), representing the current intent to name the color. This passes activation to the inter-
                                  mediate units in the color naming pathway (indicated by arrows), which primes those units
                                  (indicated by larger size), and biases processing in favor of activity ﬂowing along this path-
                                  way. This biasing effect favors activation of the response unit corresponding to the color
                                  input, even though the connection weights in this pathway are weaker than in the word
                                  pathway.

=== Page 39 ===
                 P1: FQP
                 January 15, 2001     12:27     Annual Reviews      AR121-COLOR
                                                                                                  trial
                                                                                                  a  naming
                                                                                                  of   congruent
                                                                                                  phasescolorthan
                                                                                                  o  for
                                                                                                  tw
                                                                                                       conﬂict
                                                                                                  duringDLPFCfor
                                                                                                     ofC
                                                                                                  CC)  C
                                                                                                  A    A
                                                                                                  (  ationof
                                                                                                  x  v
                                                                                                  corteactiation
                                                                                                       v
                                                                                                     greateracti
                                                                                                  cingulategreater
                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                  anteriorsigniﬁcantlythere(2000).
                                                                                                  andis   al
                                                                                                       phase,et
                                                                                                     there
                                                                                                  (DLPFC)
                                                                                                  x  period,response
                                                                                                  corte   MacDonald
                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                          from
                                                                                                  prefrontalpreparatorystimulus
                                                                                                     andtheAdapted
                     by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.          dorsolateralDuringDLPFC.
                                                                                                  in instructionCC.for
                                                                                                     theA
                    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgvityinthese
                                                                                                  acti
                                                                                                     Duringference
                                                                                                  fMRItask.difbetween
                                                                                                  of   o
                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                     Stroopbference
                                                                                                  course  dif
                                                                                                  ime     o
                                                                                                  T       n
                                                                                                       reading,t
                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                  5  instructedordb
                                                                                                  e    w
                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                  Figurinthanstimuli,

=== Page 40 ===
                                   Annual Review of Neuroscience
                                  Volume 24, 2001
                        CONTENTS
                        PDZ DOMAINS AND THE ORGANIZATION OF                                                1
                        SUPRAMOLECULAR COMPLEXES, Morgan Sheng, Carlo Sala
                        THE ROLE AND REGULATION OF ADENOSINE IN THE CENTRAL                               31
                        NERVOUS SYSTEM, Thomas V. Dunwiddie, Susan A. Masino
                        LOCALIZATION AND GLOBALIZATION IN CONSCIOUS VISION,                               57
                        S. Zeki
                        GLIAL CONTROL OF NEURONAL DEVELOPMENT, Greg Lemke                                 87
                        TOUCH AND GO: Decision-Making Mechanisms in Somatosensation,                     107
                        Ranulfo Romo, Emilio Salinas
                        SYNAPTIC MODIFICATION BY CORRELATED ACTIVITY: Hebb''s                            139
                        Postulate Revisited, Guo-qiang Bi, Mu-ming Poo
                        AN INTEGRATIVE THEORY OF PREFRONTAL CORTEX                                       167
                        FUNCTION, Earl K. Miller, Jonathan D. Cohen
                        THE PHYSIOLOGY OF STEREOPSIS, B. G. Cumming, G. C.                               203
                        DeAngelis
                        PARANEOPLASTIC NEUROLOGIC DISEASE ANTIGENS: RNA-
                        Binding Proteins and Signaling Proteins in Neuronal Degeneration, Kiran          239
                        Musunuru, Robert B. Darnell
                        ODOR ENCODING AS AN ACTIVE, DYNAMICAL PROCESS: 
                        Experiments, Computation, and Theory, Gilles Laurent, Mark Stopfer,              263
                        Rainer W Friedrich, Misha I Rabinovich, Alexander Volkovskii, Henry 
                        DI Abarbanel
                        PROTEIN SYNTHESIS AT SYNAPTIC SITES ON DENDRITES,                                299
                        Oswald Steward, Erin M. Schuman
                        SIGNALING AND TRANSCRIPTIONAL MECHANISMS IN                                      327
                        PITUITARY DEVELOPMENT, Jeremy S. Dasen, Michael G. Rosenfeld
                        NEUROPEPTIDES AND THE INTEGRATION OF MOTOR                                       357
                        RESPONSES TO DEHYDRATION , Alan G. Watts
    by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.THE DEVELOPMENTAL BIOLOGY OF BRAIN TUMORS, Robert 385
                        Wechsler-Reya, Matthew P. Scott
                        TO EAT OR TO SLEEP? OREXIN IN THE REGULATION OF 
  Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgFEEDING AND WAKEFULNESS, Jon T. Willie, Richard M. Chemelli, 429
                        Christopher M. Sinton, Masashi Yanagisawa
                        SPATIAL PROCESSING IN THE BRAIN: The Activity of Hippocampal                     459
                        Place Cells, Phillip J. Best, Aaron M. White, Ali Minai
                        THE VANILLOID RECEPTOR: A Molecular Gateway to the Pain                          487
                        Pathway, Michael J Caterina, David Julius
                        PRION DISEASES OF HUMANS AND ANIMALS: Their Causes and                           519
                        Molecular Basis, John Collinge
                        VIKTOR HAMBURGER AND RITA LEVI-MONTALCINI: The Path to                           551
                        the Discovery of Nerve Growth Factor, W. Maxwell Cowan
                        EARLY DAYS OF THE NERVE GROWTH FACTOR PROTEINS,                                  601
                        Eric M. Shooter
                        SEQUENTIAL ORGANIZATION OF MULTIPLE MOVEMENTS:                                   631
                        Involvement of Cortical Motor Areas, Jun Tanji
                        INFLUENCE OF DENDRITIC CONDUCTANCES ON THE INPUT-                                653
                        OUTPUT PROPERTIES OF NEURONS, Alex Reyes

=== Page 41 ===
                     NEUROTROPHINS: Roles in Neuronal Development and Function, Eric         677
                     J Huang, Louis F Reichardt
                     CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE MEDULLARY RAPHE AND 
                     VENTROMEDIAL RETICULAR REGION TO PAIN MODULATION                        737
                     AND OTHER HOMEOSTATIC FUNCTIONS, Peggy Mason
                     ACTIVATION, DEACTIVATION, AND ADAPTATION IN 
                     VERTEBRATE PHOTORECEPTOR CELLS,  Marie E Burns, Denis A 
                     Baylor                                                                  779
                     ACTIVITY-DEPENDENT SPINAL CORD PLASTICITY IN HEALTH 
                     AND DISEASE,  Jonathan R Wolpaw, Ann M Tennissen                        807
                     QUANTITATIVE GENETICS AND MOUSE BEHAVIOR, Jeanne M                      845
                     Wehner, Richard A Radcliffe, Barbara J Bowers
                     EARLY ANTERIOR/POSTERIOR PATTERNING OF THE                              869
                     MIDBRAIN AND CEREBELLUM, Aimin Liu, Alexandra L Joyner
                     NEUROBIOLOGY OF PAVLOVIAN FEAR CONDITIONING, Stephen                    897
                     Maren
                     {{alpha}}-LATROTOXIN AND ITS RECEPTORS: Neurexins and 
                     CIRL/Latrophilins, Thomas C Südhof                                      933
                     IMAGING AND CODING IN THE OLFACTORY SYSTEM, John S                      963
                     Kauer, Joel White
                     THE ROLE OF THE CEREBELLUM IN VOLUNTARY EYE                             981
                     MOVEMENTS, Farrel R Robinson, Albert F Fuchs
                     ROLE OF THE REELIN SIGNALING PATHWAY IN CENTRAL                        1005
                     NERVOUS SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT, Dennis S Rice, Tom Curran
                     HUMAN BRAIN MALFORMATIONS AND THEIR LESSONS FOR                        1041
                     NEURONAL MIGRATION, M Elizabeth Ross, Christopher A Walsh
                     MORPHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN DENDRITIC SPINES 
                     ASSOCIATED WITH LONG-TERM SYNAPTIC PLASTICITY, Rafael                  1071
                     Yuste, Tobias Bonhoeffer
                     STOPPING TIME: The Genetics of Fly and Mouse Circadian Clocks,         1091
                     Ravi Allada, Patrick Emery, Joseph S. Takahashi, Michael Rosbash
                     NEURODEGENERATIVE TAUOPATHIES, Virginia M-Y Lee, Michel                1121
                     Goedert, John Q Trojanowski
                     MATERNAL CARE, GENE EXPRESSION, AND THE 
                     TRANSMISSION OF INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES IN STRESS                       1161
    by Princeton University Library on 08/16/10. For personal use only.REACTIVITY ACROSS GENERATIONS, Michael J Meaney
                     NATURAL IMAGE STATISTICS AND NEURAL                                    1193
  Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2001.24:167-202. Downloaded from arjournals.annualreviews.orgREPRESENTATION,  Eero P Simoncelli, Bruno A Olshausen
                     Nerve Growth Factor Signaling,  Neuroprotection, and Neural Repair,    1217
                     Michael V Sofroniew, Charles L Howe, William C Mobley
                     FLIES, GENES, AND LEARNING, Scott Waddell, William G Quinn             1283
