             AFastLearningAlgorithmforDeepBeliefNets                     1543
             Figure 7: All 49 cases in which the network guessed right but had a second
             guesswhoseprobabilitywaswithin0.3oftheprobabilityofthebestguess.The
             true classes are arranged in standard scan order.
             neuralnetworksfrom1.5%to0.95%.Thereisnoobviousreasonwhyweight
             sharingandsubsamplingcannotbeusedtoreducetheerrorrateofthegen-
             erative model, and we are currently investigating this approach. Further
             improvementscanalwaysbeachievedbyaveragingtheopinionsofmulti-
             ple networks, but this technique is available to all methods.
               Substantial reductions in the error rate can be achieved by supplement-
             ingthedatasetwithslightlytransformedversionsofthetrainingdata.Us-
             ingone-andtwo-pixeltranslations,DecosteandSchoelkopf(2002)achieve
             0.56%. Using local elastic deformations in a convolutional neural network,
             Simard, Steinkraus, and Platt (2003) achieve 0.4%, which is slightly bet-
             ter than the 0.63% achieved by the best hand-coded recognition algorithm
             (Belongie, Malik, & Puzicha, 2002). We have not yet explored the use of
             distorted data for learning generative models because many types of dis-
             tortion need to be investigated, and the ﬁne-tuning algorithm is currently
             too slow.
                6.2 Testing the Network. One way to test the network is to use a
             stochastic up-pass from the image to ﬁx the binary states of the 500 units in
             the lower layer of the associative memory. With these states ﬁxed, the label
             units are given initial real-valued activities of 0.1, and a few iterations of
             alternating Gibbs sampling are then used to activate the correct label unit.
             This method of testing gives error rates that are almost 1% higher than the
             rates reported above.
