       1530               G.Hinton,S.Osindero,andY.-W.Teh
       Figure 2: A simple logistic belief net containing two independent, rare causes
       thatbecomehighlyanticorrelatedwhenweobservethehousejumping.Thebias
       of −10 on the earthquake node means that in the absence of any observation,
       this node is e10 times more likely to be off than on. If the earthquake node is on
       and the truck node is off, the jump node has a total input of 0, which means
       that it has an even chance of being on. This is a much better explanation of
       the observation that the house jumped than the odds of e−20, which apply if
       neither of the hidden causes is active. But it is wasteful to turn on both hidden
       causes to explain the observation because the probability of both happening is
       e−10 ×e−10 = e−20. When the earthquake node is turned on, it “explains away”
       the evidence for the truck node.
       2 ComplementaryPriors
       The phenomenon of explaining away (illustrated in Figure 2) makes in-
       ference difﬁcult in directed belief nets. In densely connected networks, the
       posteriordistributionoverthehiddenvariablesisintractableexceptinafew
       special cases, such as mixture models or linear models with additive gaus-
       sian noise. Markov chain Monte Carlo methods (Neal, 1992) can be used
       to sample from the posterior, but they are typically very time-consuming.
       Variational methods (Neal & Hinton, 1998) approximate the true posterior
       withamoretractabledistribution,andtheycanbeusedtoimprovealower
       boundonthelogprobabilityofthetrainingdata.Itiscomfortingthatlearn-
       ing is guaranteed to improve a variational bound even when the inference
       of the hidden states is done incorrectly, but it would be much better to ﬁnd
       a way of eliminating explaining away altogether, even in models whose
       hiddenvariableshavehighlycorrelatedeffectsonthevisiblevariables.Itis
       widelyassumedthatthisisimpossible.
         Alogistic belief net (Neal, 1992) is composed of stochastic binary units.
       Whenthenetisusedtogenerate data, the probability of turning on unit i
       is a logistic function of the states of its immediate ancestors, j, and of the
