                               Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                               TheRNNencdec-50correctlytranslatedthesourcesentenceuntil[amedicalcenter]. However,from
                               there on (underlined), it deviated from the original meaning of the source sentence. For instance, it
                               replaced [based on his status as a health care worker at a hospital] in the source sentence with [en
                                                  ´            ´
                               fonction de son etat de sante] (“based on his state of health”).
                               On the other hand, the RNNsearch-50 generated the following correct translation, preserving the
                               whole meaning of the input sentence without omitting any details:
                                          Un privilege d’admission est le droit d’un medecin d’admettre un patient a un
                                                    `                                         ´                                  `
                                          hopital ou un centre medical pour effectuer un diagnostic ou une procedure, selon
                                           ˆ                       ´                                                     ´
                                          son statut de travailleur des soins de sante a l’hopital.
                                                                                         ´ `    ˆ
                               Let us consider another sentence from the test set:
                                          This kind of experience is part of Disney’s efforts to ”extend the lifetime of its
                                          series and build new relationships with audiences via digital platforms that are
                                          becoming ever more important,” he added.
                               Thetranslation by the RNNencdec-50 is
                                          Cetyped’experiencefaitpartiedesinitiativesduDisneypour”prolongerladuree
                                                         ´                                                                          ´
                                          deviedesesnouvellesetdedevelopperdesliensavecleslecteursnumeriquesqui
                                                                           ´                                              ´
                                          deviennent plus complexes.
                               As with the previous example, the RNNencdec began deviating from the actual meaning of the
                               source sentence after generating approximately 30 words (see the underlined phrase). After that
                               point, the quality of the translation deteriorates, with basic mistakes such as the lack of a closing
                               quotation mark.
                               Again, the RNNsearch-50 was able to translate this long sentence correctly:
                                          Ce genre d’experience fait partie des efforts de Disney pour ”prolonger la duree
                                                           ´                                                                        ´
                                          de vie de ses series et creer de nouvelles relations avec des publics via des
                                                            ´            ´
                                          plateformes numeriques de plus en plus importantes”, a-t-il ajoute.
                                                             ´                                                       ´
                               In conjunction with the quantitative results presented already, these qualitative observations con-
                               ﬁrm our hypotheses that the RNNsearch architecture enables far more reliable translation of long
                               sentences than the standard RNNencdec model.
                               In Appendix C, we provide a few more sample translations of long source sentences generated by
                               the RNNencdec-50, RNNsearch-50 and Google Translate along with the reference translations.
                               6     RELATED WORK
                               6.1    LEARNING TO ALIGN
                               Asimilar approach of aligning an output symbol with an input symbol was proposed recently by
                               Graves (2013) in the context of handwriting synthesis. Handwriting synthesis is a task where the
                               model is asked to generate handwriting of a given sequence of characters. In his work, he used a
                               mixture of Gaussian kernels to compute the weights of the annotations, where the location, width
                               and mixture coefﬁcient of each kernel was predicted from an alignment model. More speciﬁcally,
                               his alignment was restricted to predict the location such that the location increases monotonically.
                               The main difference from our approach is that, in (Graves, 2013), the modes of the weights of the
                               annotations only move in one direction. In the context of machine translation, this is a severe limi-
                               tation, as (long-distance) reordering is often needed to generate a grammatically correct translation
                               (for instance, English-to-German).
                               Our approach, on the other hand, requires computing the annotation weight of every word in the
                               source sentence for each word in the translation. This drawback is not severe with the task of
                               translation in which most of input and output sentences are only 15–40 words. However, this may
                               limit the applicability of the proposed scheme to other tasks.
                                                                                       8
