                                         Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                         Rajeev Alur              DanaFisman             Rishabh Singh              ArmandoSolar-Lezama
                                 University of Pennsylvania              Microsoft Research       Massachusetts Institute of Technology
                            Syntax-Guided Synthesis (SyGuS) is the computational problem of ﬁnding an implementation f that
                            meets both a semantic constraint given by a logical formula ϕ in a background theory T, and a
                            syntactic constraint given by a grammar G, which speciﬁes the allowed set of candidate implementa-
                            tions. Such a synthesis problem can be formally deﬁned in SyGuS-IF, a language that is built on top
                            of SMT-LIB.
                                TheSyntax-GuidedSynthesisCompetition(SyGuS-Comp)isanefforttofacilitate, bringtogether
                            and accelerate research and development of efﬁcient solvers for SyGuS by providing a platform
                            for evaluating different synthesis techniques on a comprehensive set of benchmarks. In this year’s
                            competition we added two specialized tracks: a track for conditional linear arithmetic, where the
                            grammar need not be speciﬁed and is implicitly assumed to be that of the LIA logic of SMT-LIB,
                            and a track for invariant synthesis problems, with special constructs conforming to the structure of
                            an invariant synthesis problem. This paper presents and analyzes the results of SyGuS-Comp’15.
                     1    Introduction
                     Syntax guided synthesis is a form of synthesis where in addition to a speciﬁcation, the user provides a
                     syntactic description of the space of possible programs that the synthesizer is allowed to consider. This
                     style of synthesis was popularized by the Sketch project [19] and has become an important approach
                     underpinning a variety of synthesis efforts (e.g. [9, 20, 22]). Within the common framework of syntax
                     guided synthesis, however, there are a number of possible approaches that can be used to solve a given
                     synthesis problem, and until recently, research on the relative merits of these different approaches had
                     beenhamperedbythedifﬁcultyofmakingdirectcomparisonsaboutalgorithmsimplementedindifferent
                     systems and with very different interfaces.
                         The Syntax Guided Synthesis competition (SyGuS-Comp) was started as a way to accelerate ad-
                     vances in the ﬁeld by offering a uniform standard notation and formalism for describing these problems,
                     allowing for direct comparisons between different solution methods. The SyGuS formalism [13] is de-
                     rived from the SMT-LIB format [5], a popular format for describing SMT problems, with the goal of
                     makingiteasytolearnforusersandeasytosupportforsynthesizerdevelopers. In the short time that the
                     formalismhasbeeninpubliccirculation,ithasalreadyperformedwellinmanyofthesegoals. Ithaspro-
                     vided important insights into the relative merits of different algorithms [1, 2] which have been exploited
                     to help develop new algorithms [8], and has been used to evaluate brand new algorithms [3, 10, 14].
                     Beyond synthesizer developers, there is a growing community of users that is coalescing around the
                     formalism.
                         The SyGuS problem is formally deﬁned as the problem of ﬁnding an implementation of a function
                     f that meets both a semantic constraint given by a logical formula ϕ in a background theory T, and
                     a syntactic constraint given by a grammar G. More concretely, let ϕ be a formula in some theory T
                     that involves some free variables x0,...xi and uses an unknown function f. The goal of synthesis is to
                     discover an implementation fimp such that replacing fimp for f in ϕ makes the formula valid for all values
                     of the free variables.
                                                                    ∀x0,...xi. ϕ[f/fimp]
                     ˇ                                                                   c
                         ´                                                              R.Alur,D.Fisman,R.Singh&A.Solar-Lezama
                     Cerny, Kuncak, Madhusudan (Eds.): Fourth Workshop on
                     Synthesis (SYNT 2015)                                              This work is licensed under the
                     EPTCS202,2016,pp.3–26,doi:10.4204/EPTCS.202.3                      Creative Commons Attribution License.
        4                        Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
        The syntactic restriction implies that the function fimp must belong to the grammar G also provided by
        the user.
        Example Asanexample,considertheproblemofﬁndingabit-vectorfunctionthatreturnsabit-vector
        with a 1 in the position of the least signiﬁcant zero in its input bit-vector and zero everywhere else. This
        problem is deﬁned in terms of the theory of bit-vectors, which includes operations such as bitwise and,
        bitwise or, as well as left and right shifts and basic arithmetic among bit-vectors. The example problem
        can be formalized in terms of two constraints that must be satisﬁed by the desired function. The ﬁrst
        constraint is that if x is not zero, f(x) should have a one in the same position as x has a zero, so bitwise
        and(&)of f(x) and the bitwise negation of x (∼x) should not be zero.
                       ∀x. x > 0 ⇒(f(x) & ∼x)>0
        The way we enforce that there is a single one and that it corresponds to the least signiﬁcant zero is by
        enforcing that if we shift f(x) right by any amount, then bitwise anding with the bitwise negation of x
        will now yield zero.
                     ∀x,y. y > 0 ⇒ (f(x)  y & ∼x)=0
         These two constraints can be expressed succinctly in SyGuS with the following notation.
        (set-logic BV)
        (synth-fun f ((x (BitVec 32))) (BitVec 32)
               ((Start (BitVec 32) (x 0 1
                         (bvand Start Start)
                         (bvor Start Start)
                         (bvnot Start)
                         (bvadd Start Start)))))
        (declare-var x (BitVec 32))
        (declare-var y (BitVec 32))
        (constraint (=> (bvult 0 x) (bvult 0 (bvand (f x) (bvnot x)))))
        (constraint (=> (bvult 0 y) (= 0 (bvand (bvshr (f x) y) (bvnot x)))))
        (check-synth)
        The set-logic directive indicates that the constraints should be interpreted in terms of the theory of
        bitvectors. The directive declare-var is used to declare x and y as 32-bit bitvector variables. The con-
        straints are introduced with the directive constraint, and check-synth marks the end of the problem
        and prompts the synthesizer to solve for the missing function. Crucially, in order for the synthesizer to
        generate f, it needs a grammar, which is provided as part of the synth-fun directive. In this example,
        we have signiﬁcantly reduced the space of possible functions by restricting the search to expressions
        involving bitwise and, or, bitwise negation, sum and the constants 0 and 1, instead of asking the system
        to consider completely arbitrary expressions in the theory of bitvectors.
                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                  5
                 1.1   Conditional Linear Integer Arithmetic Track
                 For problems where the grammar consists of the set of all possible integer linear arithmetic terms, it
                 is sometimes possible to apply specialized solution techniques that exploit the information that decision
                 proceduresforintegerlineararithmeticareabletoproduce. Forthisreason, the2015SyGuScompetition
                 included a separate track where the grammar for all the unknown functions was assumed to be the entire
                 theory of Integer Linear Arithmetic with ITE conditionals.
                 Example As a simple example, consider the problem of synthesizing a function max2 that produces
                 the maximumoftwointegers. The problem can be speciﬁed with the constraint below:
                 (set-logic LIA)
                 (synth-fun max2 ((x Int) (y Int)) Int)
                 (declare-var x Int)
                 (declare-var y Int)
                 (constraint (>= (max2 x y) x))
                 (constraint (>= (max2 x y) y))
                 (constraint (or (= x (max2 x y)) (or (= y (max2 x y)))))
                 (check-synth)
                     Note that the deﬁnition of the unknown function max2 does not include a grammar this time, but
                 because the problem is deﬁned in the theory of linear integer arithmetic (LIA), the default grammar
                 consists of all the operations available in the theory.
                 1.2   Invariant Synthesis Track
                 One of the main applications of SyGuS is invariant synthesis. For this problem, the goal is to discover
                 an invariant that makes the veriﬁcation condition for a given loop valid. Such a problem can be easily
                 encoded in SyGuS, but invariant synthesis problems have structure that some solution algorithms are
                 able to exploit and that can be lost when encoding it into SyGuS. For this reason, the 2015 installment
                 of the competition also included a separate track for invariant synthesis problems where the additional
                 structure is made apparent. In the invariant synthesis version of the SyGuS format, the constraints are
                 separated into pre-condition, post-condition and transition relation, and the grammar for the unknown
                 invariant is assumed to be the same as that for the conditional linear arithmetic track.
                 Example Forexample,considerthefollowing simple loop.
                 Pre: i >= 0     and    j=j0 and i=i0;
                 while(i > 0){
                      i = i - 1;
                      j = j + 1;
                 }
                 Post: j = j0 + i0;
                 Suppose we want to prove that the value of j at the end of the loop equals the value of i + j at the
                 beginning of the loop. The veriﬁcation condition for this loop would check that (a) the precondition
                 implies the invariant, (b) that the invariant is inductive, so if it holds before an iteration and the loop
                 condition is true, then it will hold after that iteration, and (c) that the invariant together with the negation
                 of the loop condition implies the postcondition. All of these constraints can be expressed in the standard
              6                                               Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
              SyGuSformat, but they can be expressed more concisely using the extensions explicitly deﬁned for this
              purpose. Speciﬁcally, the encoding will be as follows.
              (set-logic LIA)
              (synth-inv inv-f ((i Int) (j Int) (i0 Int) (j0 Int)))
              (declare-primed-var i0 Int)
              (declare-primed-var j0 Int)
              (declare-primed-var i  Int)
              (declare-primed-var j  Int)
              (define-fun pre-f ((i Int) (j Int) (i0 Int) (j0 Int)) Bool
                                (and (>= i 0) (and (= i i0) (= j j0))))
              (define-fun trans-f ((i Int) (j Int) (i0 Int) (j0 Int)
                                   (i! Int) (j! Int) (i0! Int) (j0! Int)) Bool
                                   (and (and (= i! (- i 1)) (= j! (+ j 1)))
                                        (and (= i0! i0) (= j0! j0))))
              (define-fun post-f ((i Int) (j Int) (i0 Int) (j0 Int)) Bool
                                 (= j (+ j0 i0)))
              (inv-constraint inv-f pre-f trans-f post-f)
              (check-synth)
                 The directive (declare-primed-var i) is equivalent to separately declaring i and i!, where the
              primed version of the variables is used to distinguish their value before and after the loop body. Just like
              in the earlier example, the function to be synthesized inv f does not include a grammar, so the entire
              LIAgrammarisassumed. HerethereturntypeisalsonotgivenandisassumedtobeBoolsinceinvariant
              are assumed to be predicates. The constraint inv-constraint is syntactic sugar for the full veriﬁcation
              condition involving the invariant, precondition, postcondition and transition function.
              1.3  SyGuS-Comp’14summary
              The ﬁrst SyGuS competition, SyGuS-Comp’14 consisted of a single track — the general track — in
              which the benchmark provides the grammar describing the desired syntactic restrictions for that bench-
              mark. The background theory could be either linear interger arithmetic or bitvectors. Five solvers com-
              peted in SyGuS-Comp’14. The solver who won the ﬁrst place was the ENUMERATIVE solver which
              solved 126 out of 241 benchmarks.
              1.4  SyGuS-Comp’15summary
              The 2015 instance of SyGuS-Comp was the second iteration of the competition and the ﬁrst iteration to
              include the separate conditional linear integer arithmetic and invariant synthesis tracks. As elaborated
              in Section 2, there were a total of eight solvers submitted to the competition which represent a range
              of solution strategies. In the rest of the paper, we describe the details of the benchmarks used for the
                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                  7
                 competition, the solution approaches used by each of the participants and the results of the competition
                 on each of the different categories of benchmarks.
                 2    Competition Settings
                 2.1   Participating Benchmarks
                 Wecollected several benchmarks from various sources using an open call for benchmarks, from which
                 wesampled309benchmarksfortheGeneralTrack,73benchmarksfortheInvariantSynthesisTrack,and
                 67benchmarksfortheConditionalLinearArithmetictrack. These benchmarks can broadly be classiﬁed
                 into following 13 categories (11 categories for the General Track). The number of benchmarks in each
                 of these categories and the contributors for the new set of benchmarks is shown in Table 1.
                     • Array Benchmarks: This category consists of benchmarks that involve synthesizing a function
                       over an integer array of a bounded size. Since the current SyGuS-IF format does not support
                       arrays, we represent them using an ordered sequence of integer variables. One major class of
                       benchmarks in this category is array-search, which requires to synthesize a loop-free function
                       to ﬁnd an appropriate index for insertion of a given value into a sorted array of size n. Another
                       major class of benchmark is array-sum-m-n, which requires to synthesize a function to ﬁnd ﬁrst
                       two elements in an array of size n whose sum is greater than m.
                     • Let Benchmarks: The benchmarks in this category use the let construct as speciﬁed in the
                       SyGuS-IF format. The let expressions allow synthesizers to represent multiple occurrences of
                       commonsubexpressions succinctly, which helps in improving the scalability. The let expressions
                       in speciﬁcation constraints can be desugared, but they can not be desugared when used in gram-
                       mar productions. For example, the production T := (let [z=U] z + z) denotes sum of two
                       identical subexpressions built using addition operator, but the same can not be speciﬁed using a
                       context-free grammar.
                     • Invariant Generation Benchmarks (Bounded and Unbounded Integers): This category of
                       benchmarks consists of loop invariant synthesis problems from the domain of program veriﬁca-
                       tion. Some of these benchmarks are obtained from the Competition of Software Veriﬁcation (SV-
                       COMP)andothers are from the literature on invariant synthesis. It involves two sub-categories:
                       onethat uses unbounded integers and second that bounds the range of integers that can be used for
                       the invariant expression.
                     • ICFPBenchmarks: Thisbenchmarksinthiscategoryaresomeofthechallengingproblemstaken
                       from the 2013 ICFP Programming Competition on program synthesis. These benchmarks in-
                       volve synthesizing bit-vector functions from a domain-speciﬁc language of bit-vectors consisting
                       of primitive bitwise operators such as shift, not, add, or, xor etc. The language also consists of
                       a constrained comparison operator and a fold operator. The correctness speciﬁcation for these
                       benchmarks is provided using 64-bit input-output bit-vector examples.
                     • Hacker’s Delight Benchmarks: This category involves benchmarks that are derived from 20 dif-
                       ferent bit-manipulation problems from the Hackers Delight book. For these benchmarks, there are
                       3 increasingly challenging levels of grammars (d0, d1, and d5) that are provided for the unknown
                       function, where the level d0 consists of only operators that are necessary for the unknown function
                       and the level d5 consists of complete bit-vector grammar.
                  8                                                          Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                       BenchmarkCateogry          NumberofBenchmarks               Contributors (in 2015)
                       Arrays                                31
                       Bitvectors                             5
                       CompilerOptimizations                 21                        Nissim Ofek (Yale):  21
                       HackersDelight                        44
                       ICFP                                  50
                       Integers                              34               Shambwaditya Saha (UIUC):     14
                       InvariantGeneration                   28
                       InvariantGenerationUbdd               28
                       Let                                   15
                       MotionPlanning                        12              Sarah Chasins (UC Berkeley):   12
                       MultipleFunctions                     41
                       INVTrack                              73                      Pranav Garg (UIUC):    51
                       LIATrack                              67
                  Table 1: The number of benchmarks in each individual category used in SyGuS-COMP 2015 together
                  with the number of new contributions and their contributors.
                     • Integer Benchmarks: These benchmarks involve synthesizing functions that involve complex
                        branching structure over linear arithmetic expressions. For example, the max benchmarks require
                        to synthesize a function using comparison operator to compute maximum of n integers.
                     • BitVector Benchmarks: This category of benchmarks involve synthesizing a complex function
                        over a set of Boolean values represented using a bit-vector. For example, the parity benchmarks
                        compute the parity of a given set of Boolean values, and the Morton benchmarks compute the
                        Mortonnumbers.
                     • Compiler Optimization Benchmarks: The benchmarks in this category come from the domain
                        of compiler optimization where the goal is to synthesize a simpler expression (constrained by a
                        grammar) that is functionally equivalent with a given complicated expression.
                     • Multiple Functions Benchmarks: This class of benchmarks consists of synthesis problems that
                        involve synthesizing multiple unknown functions that satisfy a given set of constraints.
                     • MotionPlanningBenchmarks: Thebenchmarksinthiscategorycomefromthedomainofrobot
                        motionplanning,wherethetaskistosynthesizeafunctiontocontrolrobotmovement(constrained
                        by a grammar of possible movements) that reach from one point in space to another while main-
                        taining some invariant constraints such as no collision.
                     • LIA Track Benchmarks: The benchmarks in this category come from the General Track cat-
                        egories such as integer benchmarks, array benchmarks, and motion planning benchmarks. The
                        grammar for the unknown functions for this category comprises of expressions from the entire
                        theory of Integer Linear Arithmetic with ITE conditionals as described in Section 3.2.
                     • INV Track Benchmarks: The benchmarks in this category come from the domain of program
                        veriﬁcation, wherethepre-condition,transitionfunction, andthepost-conditionarespeciﬁedusing
                        explicit constructs in the SyGuS-IF format.
                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                              9
                                                                 Solvers
                                                           T   S
                                                           D   U
                                                       S   S   G   E
                                                       C   C   Y   V
                                                       -   -   S   I           T   C
                                                       T   T   -   T       C   S   I
                                                       S   S               A       T
                                                       I   I   5   A       -   A   S
                                                       M   M   .   R       H   O   A
                                                       E   E   1   E   T
                                                               -           C   T   H
                                                       H   H   4   M   D   T   Y   C
                                                       C   C   C   U   -   E   S   O
                                                       L   L   V   N   E   K   O   T
                                                                       C
                                             Tracks    A   A   C   E   I   S   S   S
                                               LIA    1   1   1   0   0   0   0   0
                                               INV    1   0   1   0   1   0   0   0
                                            General   0   0   1   1   0   2   2   1
                                            Table 2: Solvers participating in each track
                 2.2  Participating Solvers
                 Atotal of eight solvers were submitted to this year’s competition, two of the solvers were submitted
                 with two conﬁgurations. Table 2 summarizes which solver participated in which track and in how many
                 conﬁgurations. Thus a total of 3 solvers participated in both the LIA and the INV tracks. In the general
                 track participated 5 solvers, out of which 2 with two conﬁgurations. Table 2 lists all the submitted solvers
                 and their authors.
                    Six of the solvers are based on the CEGIS approach: the enumerative solver (ENUMERATIVE),
                 the stochastic solver (STOCHASTIC), the Sketch solver (SKETCH-AC), the abstract solution Analyzing
                 SynthesisTool(SOSYTOAST),theAlchemistCSsolver(ALCHEMIST-CS),andtheAlchemisCSDT solver
                 (ALCHEMIST-CSDT). The approaches of these solvers differ in the way the candidate expression is
                 chosen.
                    Theenumerative solver enumerates the candidate solutions by increasing length, and tries the small-
                 est candidatethatwasnotrefutedsofar. Inbuildingnewexpressionsitusesaclassiﬁcationtoequivalence
                 classes based on correctness on the current set of examples. For further details on the enumerative solver
                 see [1, 2].
                    The stochastic solver chooses the candidate expression by a probabilistic walk on a graph where
                 nodes are expressions and edges capture single-edits of the expression parse tree. It uses the Metropolis-
                 Hastings Algorithm using a score function that is inversely proportional to the number of instances in the
                 current set of examples, on which the expression is incorrect. For further details see [1, 2].
                    TheSketchsolverfollowsasymbolicapproachtoCEGISandusesanSMTsolverstochoosethenext
                 candidate expression [18]. The Sketch Adaptive-Concretization combines symbolic and explicit CEGIS
                 approaches [8] by randomly concretizing highly inﬂuential unknowns. This approaches lends itself to
                 parallelism. Indeed SKETCH-AC is the only solver that used all four cores in this year’s competition (all
                 the other solvers used a single core).
                    The SOSYTOAST solver reﬁnes the enumerative CEGIS approach by considering abstract expres-
                 sions; these are expressions that combine grammar non-terminals and concrete symbols. The idea is
                 to use an SMT solver to refute impossible abstract expressions, instead of refuting all their respective
                 concretizations. A check of the feasbility of an abstract expression to be a solution involves qunatifer
                 alternation. The SMT calls are thus bounded by a small time unit (10 seconds) [15].
                    Thetools ALCHEMIST-CS[12]andALCHEMIST-CSDT[17]arespecializedsolversfortheLIAtrack.
                 They are base on the Alchemist [16], they both synthesize nested if-then-else expressions, and com-
                 10                                                        Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                              Solver    Authors
                     ALCHEMIST-CS       Daniel Neider (UIUC), Shambwaditya Saha (UIUC) and P. Madhusudan (UIUC)
                   ALCHEMIST-CSDT       Shambwaditya Saha (UIUC), Daniel Neider (UIUC) and P. Madhusudan (UIUC)
                   CVC4-1.5-SYGUS       AndrewReynolds(EPFL),ViktorKuncak(EPFL),CesareTinelli (Univ. of Iowa),
                                        Clark Barrett (NYU), Morgan Deters (NYU) and Tim King (Verimag)
                      ENUMERATIVE       Abhishek Udupa (Penn)
                             ICE-DT     Daniel Neider (UIUC), P. Madhusudan (UIUC) and Pranav Garg (UIUC)
                         SKETCH-AC      Jinseong Jeon (UMD), Xiaokang Qiu (MIT), Armando Solar-Lezama (MIT) and
                                        Jeffrey S. Foster (UMD)
                        SOSYTOAST       Heinz Riener (DLR) and Ruediger Ehlers (DLR)
                        STOCHASTIC      MukundRaghothama(Penn)
                                             Table 3: Submitted solvers and their authors
                 bine enumeration and constraint-solver based technique to ﬁnd leaf expressions The ALCHEMIST-CSDT
                 works in two modes, in the ﬁrst all variables (qunatiﬁed and unquantiﬁed) are assumed to be integers,
                 and in the second variables may be either integers or Booleans. The ALCHEMIST-CS tool can only solve
                 point-wise SyGuS problems. A SyGuS problem is said to be point-wise if the following holds: let F be
                 the class of all functions that are solutions to the speciﬁcation; then any function h that maps each input
                 to an output consistent to some function in F, is also a solution to the speciﬁcation.
                     The ICE-DT [11] tool is a specialized solver for the invariant synthesis track. It builds on the ICE
                 learning approach [6] — an invariant synthesis approach in which the teacher responses to a given hy-
                 pothesis may be concrete examples, counterexamples or implication. ICE-DT extends the ICE approach
                 by using decision trees as suggested in [7].
                     The CVC4-1.5-SYGUS solver is the only solver that is implemented inside an SMT solver [14]. It
                 reducesthesynthesisproblemtoanunsatisﬁbilityofquantiﬁedSMTformulae. Indeed,asnotedin[2,1],
                 for linear integer arithmetic problems, suppose the synthesis problem involves two variables x and y, then
                 it can be articulated as the following quantiﬁed SMT satisﬁability query: ∃a,b,c. ∀x,y. ϕ[f/ax+by+
                 c]. Since traditional SMT solvers are focused on instnatiation-based methods to show unsatisﬁability,
                 the CVC4-1.5-SYGUS tool reformulates LIA problems as unsatisﬁability of the synthesis conjecture
                 ∀f,∃x0,x1,...,xi,¬ϕ[f,x0,x1,...,xi]. For non-LIA problems, the CVC4-1.5-SYGUS uses an encoding
                 of the syntax restrictions using ﬁrst order variables and uses a deep embedding into an extension of the
                 background theory T with a theory of algebraic data types.
                 2.3   Experimental Setup
                 ThesolverswererunontheStarExecplatform[21]withadedicatedclusterof12nodes,whereeachnode
                 consisted of two 4-core 2.4GHz Intel processors with 256GB RAM and a 1TB hard drive. The memory
                 usage limit of each solver run was set to 128GB. The wallclock time unit was set to 3600 seconds (thus,
                 a solver that used all cores could consume at most 14400 seconds cpu time).
                     Thesolutionsthat the solvers produce are being checked for both syntactic and semantic correctness.
                 That is, a ﬁrst post-processor checks that the produced expression adheres to the grammar speciﬁed in
                 the given benchmark, and if this check passes, a second post-processor checks that the solution adheres
                 to semantic constraints given in the benchmark (by invoking an SMT solver).
                                                                                                R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Number〰つof〰つBenchmark〰つSolved〰つ〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and〰つSolved〰つUniquely〰つper〰つCategory〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                80〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                60〰つ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  solved〰つuniquely〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      solved〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                40〰つ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  total〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                20〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                    0〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         V〰つ                        〰つ                    s〰つ                      s〰つ                        〰つ                     t〰つ                        〰つ                     s〰つ                        〰つ                        〰つ                                                  〰つ                        〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN                       LIA                     ay                         r                      pts                       lg                        fp                     er                        en                        dd                         et〰つ                     an                         nc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r                        to                                                D                        Ic                                                                                                      L                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r                       c                        O                        s                                                   g                        G                         b                                                                              u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A                        e                        p                       k                                                  te                     Inv                        nU                                                     tP                      ltF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   itV                     om                      Hac                                                   In                                                 e                                                  Mo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B                       C                                                                                                                               G                                                                             Mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Inv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Figure 1: Results on the number of solved benchmarks.
                                                                                                3                         Competition Results and Analysis
                                                                                                In this section we present the results of SyGuS-COMP’15. We start with an overview of the results
                                                                                                in subsection 3.1. In subsection 3.2 we try to understand the different features a certain benchmark
                                                                                                may or may not have, and analyze each benchmark category in terms of the mentioned features. In
                                                                                                subsection 3.3 we provide detailed results of the competition — going category by category, we present
                                                                                                for each benchmark the range of times the solver took to solve that benchmark and which solver was the
                                                                                                fastest, and the range of obtained expression sizes, and which solver produced the smallest expression.
                                                                                                Finally, we conclude in subsection 3.4 with some interesting observations and conjectures.
                                                                                                3.1                              Results Overview
                                                                                                Figure 1 shows for each track and category (a) the total number of benchmarks (in green), (b) the number
                                                                                                of benchmarks solved by at least one solver (in red), and (c) the number of benchmarks solved by only
                                                                                                one of the solvers (in blue).
                                                                                                                     Figure 2 on the top shows for each track and category the number of benchmarks solved by each of
                                                                                                the solvers. It is evident from the ﬁgure that on the INV track, ICE-DT solved more instances than the
                                                                                                others; it solved 57 out of 67 benchmarks. The Alchemist solver solved 53 benchmarks in the INV track.
                                                                                                                     In the LIA track the leading solver is CVC4-1.5-SYGUS, which solved 70 out of 73 benchmarks.
                                                                                                Thesecondplace goes to ALCHEMIST-CSDT which solved 47 instances.
                                                                                                                     CVC4-1.5-SYGUS is also the winner in the general track, in which it solved 179 out of 309 bench-
                                                                                                marks. The second place in this track goes to the ENUMERATIVE solver, the winner of last year’s
                                                                                                competition, which solved 139 instances. The third place goes to the STOCHASTIC solver, which solved
                                                                                                109instances.
                                                                                                                     Figure2onthebottomshowsforeachtrackandcategorythenumberofbenchmarkssolveduniquely
                                                                                                by each of the solvers. We say that a solver solved a benchmark uniquely if it is the only solver to solve
                                                                                                that benchmark. It is evident that on the INV track, the ICE-DT solver solved more benchmarks uniquely,
                                                                                                whereasintheLIAtrackthe CVC4-1.5-SYGUS solversolvedmorebenchmarksuniquely. Inthegeneral
                                                                                                track, both CVC4-1.5-SYGUS and ENUMERATIVE solved many benchmarks that all the other solvers
                                                                                                did not. It is interesting to see that for each benchmark category, there is a clear winner in terms of the
                                                                                                numberofbenchmarkssolveduniquely.
                                                12                                                                                                                                                                  Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                                                                                                                                                      Number〰つof〰つBenchmark〰つSolved〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                  per〰つSolver〰つper〰つCategory〰つ
                                                                                       180〰つ                                                                                                                                                                              StochasMc〰つ
                                                                                       160〰つ                                                                                                                                                                              SosyToast〰つ
                                                                                       140〰つ                                                                                                                                                                              Sketch搠嵢AC〰つ
                                                                                       120〰つ                                                                                                                                                                              ICE〰つDT〰つ
                                                                                       100〰つ                                                                                                                                                                              EnumeraMve〰つ
                                                                                         80〰つ                                                                                                                                                                             CVC4搠嵢1.5〰つ
                                                                                         60〰つ                                                                                                                                                                             Alchemist〰つCSDT〰つ
                                                                                         40〰つ                                                                                                                                                                             Alchemist〰つCS〰つ
                                                                                         20〰つ
                                                                                           0〰つ
                                                                                                       〰つ          〰つ         s〰つ          s〰つ          〰つ          t〰つ          〰つ         s〰つ          〰つ           〰つ         t〰つ          〰つ           〰つ
                                                                                                     V                                    r           ts          g            p           r            n           d                                     c
                                                                                                   IN           LIA         ay                       p            l            f          e            e           d           Le          lan          n
                                                                                                                           r            to         O            D            Ic          g           G            b                                    u
                                                                                                                           r           c          p            s                                    v           U                        tP          tF
                                                                                                                         A            e         m             k                        te         In           n                                     l
                                                                                                                                   itV         o           Hac                       In                     Ge                        Mo         Mu
                                                                                                                                  B           C                                                          Inv
                                                                                                                                                 Number〰つof〰つBenchmark〰つSolved〰つUniquely〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                      per〰つSolver〰つper〰つCategory〰つ
                                                                                        25〰つ                                                                                                                                                                          StochasKc〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SosyToast〰つ
                                                                                        20〰つ                                                                                                                                                                          Sketch搠嵢AC〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ICE〰つDT〰つ
                                                                                        15〰つ                                                                                                                                                                          EnumeraKve〰つ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CVC4搠嵢1.5〰つ
                                                                                        10〰つ                                                                                                                                                                          Alchemist〰つCSDT〰つ
                                                                                         5〰つ                                                                                                                                                                          Alchemist〰つCS〰つ
                                                                                         0〰つ
                                                                                                     〰つ          〰つ         s〰つ         s〰つ         〰つ         t〰つ          〰つ         s〰つ          〰つ          〰つ         t〰つ         〰つ          〰つ
                                                                                                    V         LIA         ay           r         pts          lg          fp         er          en          dd         Le          lan          nc
                                                                                                 IN                      r           to         O           D           Ic          g           G           b                                  u
                                                                                                                        r           c          p           s                                   v          U                       tP         tF
                                                                                                                      A         itVe       om             k                     Inte         In         en                     Mo            l
                                                                                                                              B           C            Hac                                         InvG                                   Mu
                                                                                 Figure 2: Results on the number of solved benchmarks per solver per category.
                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                            13
                 3.2  Benchmarks’Features
                 Since the solving strategies for synthesizers can be greatly inﬂuenced by the problem representation, we
                 quantify here some different features that are exhibited by the benchmarks from different categories in
                         1
                 Table 3.2. We consider here four main categories: 1) whether the invocation of the unknown function is
                 alwayspresent with the same set of arguments (single invocation) or there are multiple different function
                 invocations (multiple invocation), 2) whether there is a single unknown function (single unknown) or
                 multiple unknown functions (multiple unknown), 3) whether the speciﬁcation constraint is complete
                 (complete spec) or partially speciﬁed using input-output examples (partial spec), and ﬁnally 4) whether
                 the grammar for the unknown function is restricted, semi-general, or general.
                 Function Invocation  Wesayabenchmarkbelongstothesingleinvocationclass if the unknown func-
                 tion is called (possibly multiple times) with the same set of arguments in the speciﬁcation constraint. For
                 example, consider the speciﬁcation constraint for the max4 benchmark. This benchmark belongs to the
                 single invocation class because the max4 function is always called with the same set of arguments x, y,
                 z, and w.
                 (constraint (>= (max4 x y z w) x))
                 (constraint (>= (max4 x y z w) y))
                 (constraint (>= (max4 x y z w) z))
                 (constraint (>= (max4 x y z w) w))
                 (constraint (or (= x (max4 x y z w))
                               (or (= y (max4 x y z w))
                               (or (= z (max4 x y z w))
                                   (= w (max4 x y z w))))))
                    Similarly, we say a benchmark belongs to the multiple invocation class if the unknown function is
                 called multiple times with different set of arguments. For example, consider the icfp 7 10 benchmark,
                 where the unknown function f is called multiple times with different set of arguments.
                 (constraint (= (f #x1be88589ba201842) #xe4177a7645dfe7bd))
                 (constraint (= (f #x49ea2ae53e599623) #x93d455ca7cb32c46))
                 (constraint (= (f #xea82cc5e6104247d) #xea82cc5e6104247d))
                 (constraint (= (f #x75820d31bed79b87) #xeb041a637daf370e))
                 (constraint (= (f #xe682665199ee31a8) #x197d99ae6611ce57))
                 NumberofUnknownFunctions Wesayabenchmarkbelongstotheclassofsingleunknownclassif
                 there is only one unkown function that needs to be synthesized. For example, the max4 and icfp 7 10
                 benchmarks above require to synthesize a single function max4 and f respectively. The benchmarks that
                 require to synthesize multiple unknown functions are said to belong to the multiple unkown class. For
                 example, consider the speciﬁcation constraint from the s8 benchmark that requires to synthesize three
                 unknownfunctions f1, f2, and f3, such that their sum is equal to a given linear arithmetic expression.
                 (constraint (= (+ (+ (f1 x y z) (f2 x y z)) (f3 x y z)) (+ (+ x y) z)))
                 (constraint (= (f2 x y z) (- y 1)))
                   1Thementionedfeatures may not exist in all benchmarks of the category, but they are present in most of the benchmarks in
                 that category.
                 14                                                     Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                         Benchmark              Function     # Unkown     Speciﬁcation  Grammar
                         Category               Invocations  Functions    Constraint    Generality
                         Array                  Single       Single       Complete      Restricted
                         Let                    Single       Multiple     Complete      Restricted
                         Invariant Generation   Multiple     Single       Complete      General
                         ICFP                   Multiple     Single       Partial       General
                         HackerDel-d0           Single       Single       Complete      Restricted
                         HackerDel-d1           Single       Single       Complete      Semi-General
                         HackerDel-d5           Single       Single       Complete      General
                         Integer                Single       Single       Complete      Semi-General
                         Bitvector              Single       Single       Complete      Semi-General
                         CompilerOpts           Single       Single       Complete      Restricted
                         MultipleFuncs          Multiple     Multiple     Partial       Restricted
                         MotionPlanning         Multiple     Single       Complete      Semi-General
                         LIATrack               Single       Single       Complete      General
                         INVTrack               Multiple     Single       Partial       General
                             Table 4: The list of features present in benchmarks from different categories.
                    Wenotethatmultipleunknownfunctionscanbetheoretically represented as a single unknown func-
                 tion by taking the union of respective grammars of the functions and adding a new Start non-terminal.
                 But, we still distinguish benchmarks into different categories based on number of unknown functions as
                 somesolvers might exploit the additional structural information present in the benchmarks.
                 Speciﬁcation Constraint  Since the speciﬁcation language for the SyGuS-IF is based on constraints
                 and is therefore quite general, the speciﬁcation for different benchmarks can be deﬁned with varying
                 levels of completeness. We say a benchmark belongs to the partial spec class if the speciﬁcation con-
                 straint allows for multiple possible semantic solutions for the unkown functions. We say two functions
                 are semantically different if there exists some input for which they produce different outputs. For exam-
                 ple, the speciﬁcation for the icfp 7 10 benchmark is partial as it is speciﬁed using a set of input-output
                 examples. The speciﬁcation for the s8 benchmark shown above is also partial as it allows for multiple
                 possible functions f1, f2, and f3.
                    Ontheotherhand,wesayabenchmarkbelongstothecompletespecclassifthecompletefunctional
                 speciﬁcation of the unknown function is provided. For example, consider the speciﬁcation for the com-
                 piler optimization benchmark qm loop 1, where the constraint on the unknown function qm-loop fully
                 speciﬁes the result of the function for every input.
                 (set-logic LIA)
                 (define-fun qm ((a Int) (b Int)) Int (ite (< a 0) b a))
                 (synth-fun qm-loop ((x Int)) Int
                     ((Start Int (x 0 1 3
                                     (- Start Start)
                                     (+ Start Start)
                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                 15
                                      (qm Start Start)))))
                 (declare-var x Int)
                 (constraint (= (qm-loop x) (ite (<= x 0) 3 (- x 1))))
                 (check-synth)
                 GrammarGenerality Wedivide the benchmarks into three categories based on the generality of the
                 grammars for the unknown functions. The restricted grammar class consists of benchmarks where the
                 grammarsarerestrictedtoonlycontainoperatorsandvariablesthatarestrictlynecessaryfortheunknown
                 function. The second class of grammar, semi-general grammar, consists of a few more choices for op-
                 erators and rules that might not be necessarily needed for synthesizing the unknown function. The third
                 class of grammar, general grammar, consists of a very general grammar that consists of all possible op-
                 erators and variables from a given theory. For example, consider the grammars for the hd-17-d0-prog
                 (restricted grammar), hd-17-d1-prog (semi-general), and hd-17-d5-prog (general grammar) bench-
                 marks where all the constraints are same except for the generality of the grammar. The benchmark
                 hd-17-prog is taken from the Hacker’s Delight book that needs to synthesize a bitvector function to
                 turn-off the rightmost contiguous string of 1 bits in the input bitvector x.
                 ;; hd-17-d0-prog
                 (synth-fun f ((x (BitVec 32))) (BitVec 32)
                      ((Start (BitVec 32) ((bvand Start Start)
                                                (bvadd Start Start)
                                                (bvsub Start Start)
                                                (bvor Start Start)
                                                 x
                                                #x00000001))))
                 ;; hd-17-d1-prog
                 (synth-fun f ((x (BitVec 32))) (BitVec 32)
                      ((Start (BitVec 32) ((bvand Start Start)
                                                (bvadd Start Start)
                                                (bvxor Start Start)
                                                (bvsub Start Start)
                                                (bvor Start Start)
                                                (bvnot Start)
                                                (bvneg Start)
                                                x
                                                #x00000001
                                                #x00000000
                                                #xFFFFFFFF))))
        16                       Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
        ;; hd-17-d5-prog
        (synth-fun f ((x (BitVec 32))) (BitVec 32)
          ((Start (BitVec 32) ((bvnot Start)
                     (bvxor Start Start)
                     (bvand Start Start)
                     (bvor Start Start)
                     (bvneg Start)
                     (bvadd Start Start)
                     (bvmul Start Start)
                     (bvudiv Start Start)
                     (bvurem Start Start)
                     (bvlshr Start Start)
                     (bvashr Start Start)
                     (bvshl Start Start)
                     (bvsdiv Start Start)
                     (bvsrem Start Start)
                     (bvsub Start Start)
                     x
                     #x0000001F
                     #x00000001
                     #x00000000
                     #xFFFFFFFF))))
         The grammars for the unknown functions in the Conditional Linear Arithmetic (LIA) track and the
        Invariant Synthesis (INV) track belong to the class of general grammars, where the following grammar
        is used for all unknown functions in the benchmarks.
        (synth-fun f ((x1 Int) ... (xn Int)) Int
          ((Start Int (StartInt))
           (StartInt Int (x1 ... xn ConstantInt
            (+ StartInt StartInt)
            (- StartInt StartInt)
            (* StartInt ConstantInt)
            (* ConstantInt StartInt)
            (div StartInt ConstantInt)
            (mod StartInt ConstantInt)
            (ite StartBool StartInt StartInt)))
           (ConstantInt (Constant Int))
           (StartBool Bool (true false
            (and StartBool StartBool)
            (or StartBool StartBool)
            (=> StartBool StartBool)
            (xor StartBool StartBool)
            (xnor StartBool StartBool)
                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                 17
                           (nand StartBool StartBool)
                           (nor StartBool StartBool)
                           (iff StartBool StartBool)
                           (not StartBool)
                           (= StartBool StartBool)
                           (<= StartInt StartInt)
                           (= StartInt StartInt)
                           (>= StartInt StartInt)
                           (> StartInt StartInt)
                           (< StartInt StartInt)))))
                 3.3   Detailed Results
                 In the following section we show the results of the competition from the benchmark’s perspective. For a
                 given benchmark we would like to know: how many solvers solved it, what is the min and max time to
                 solve, what are the min and max size of the expressions produced, which solver solved the benchmark
                 the fastest, and which solver produced the smallest expression.
                     We represents the results per benchmarks in groups organized per tracks and categories. For in-
                 stance, Fig. 3 shows all benchmarks of the INV tracks (ﬁrst half in the upper ﬁgure, and second half
                 in the lower ﬁgure). The black bars show the range of the time to solve among the different solvers in
                 psuedo logarithmic scale (as indicated on the upper part of the y-axis). Inspect for instance benchmark
                 anpf-new.sl. The black bar indicates that the fastest solver to solve it used between 10 to 30 second,
                 and the slowest did not solve it within the given time bound (3600 second). The black number above
                 the black bar indicates the exact number of seconds (ﬂoor-rounded to the nearest second) it took the
                 slowest solver to solve a benchmark (and ∞ if at least one solver exceeded the time bound). Thus, we
                 can see that the slowest solver to solve array-new.sl took 167 seconds to solve it. The white number
                 at the lower part of the bar indicates the time of the fastest solver to solve that benchmark. Thus, we can
                 see that the fastest solver to solve anpf-new.sl required 21 second to do so, and the fastest solver to
                 solve array-new.sl took less than a second. The colored squares/rectangles next to the lower part of
                 the black bar, indicate which solvers were the fastest to solve that benchmark (according to the solvers’
                 legendatthetop). Here, fastest means in the same logarithmic scale as the absolute fastest solver. For in-
                 stance, we can see that ALCHEMIST-CS wasthefastesttosolveanpf-new.sl,thatboth ALCHEMIST-CS
                 and ICE-DT solved cegar-new.sl in less than a second, and that all solvers (ICE-DT,ALCHEMIST-CS,
                 and CVC4-1.5-SYGUS)solved dec-new.sl in less than a second.
                     Similarly, the gray bars indicate the range of expression sizes in psuedo logarithmic scales (as in-
                 dicated on the lower part of the y-axis), where the size of an expression is determined by the number
                 of nodes in its parse tree. The black number at the bottom of the gray bar indicates the exact size ex-
                 pression of the largest solution (or ∞ if it exceeded 1000), and the white number at the top of the gray
                 bar indicates the exact size expression of the smallest solution. The colored squares/rectangles next to
                 the upper part of the gray bar indicates which solvers (according to the legend) produced the smallest
                 expression (where smallest means in the same logarithmic scale as the absolute smallest expression). For
                 instance, for tacas.sl the smallest expression produced had size 7, the biggest expression had size 121,
                 and the solver which produced the smallest expression is CVC4-1.5-SYGUS. For treax1.sl all solvers
                 produced an expression of size smaller than 10, and the absolute value of the smallest expression was 7.
                     Finally, at the top of the ﬁgure above each benchmark there is a number indicating the number
                 of solvers that solved that benchmark. For instance, one solver solved anpf-new.sl, two solvers
                                                          18                                                                                                                                                                                                   Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                                                                                                                                                                                               Invaraint Generation Track - Part 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Alchemist CS                                CVC4-1.5                            ICE DT
                                                                                                            1      3       2       2      2       2       1      3       0       0      2       3       3      3       3       2      3       3       2      1       1       2      3       3       0      0       2       1      3       3       2      2       1       2
                                                                                          >3600            ∞              ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                     ∞ ∞ ∞                                                 ∞                      ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                       ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                       ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                 [1000,3600)[100,300)                                                                                                                                                                                                    3098
                                                                                   [300,1000)[30,100)                                                   383                                           474            671                                                                  454                                           586
                                                                                     [100,300)[10,30)             167                                                                                                                       286
                                                                                       [30,100)[3,10)
                                                                                         [10,30)[1,3)      21                                                                                  11                                     12                                                                                         10
                                                                                wallclock-time[3,10)[0,1)                                                                                                                      9                                                    9
                                                                                             [1,3)0                                               1                                     2                                                             1      2       2       2                                             1                      2              1
                                                                                             [0,1)                 0       0       1      1                      1       0       0              0       0      1       0              0       0                                     0       0       1              1              0       0              1               0
                                                                                           [1,10)
                                                                                         [10,30)[1,10)             7       9       9                             7                              7       7      7       8              7       7                              3      7       7                                     7       7
                                                                                       [30,100)[10,30)            21                     29                                             11     28      28                     13      12     12                                    21      21                                    27      27      19
                                                                                     [100,300)[30,100)     41                                    35                                                                   40                             33     31                                                    55      47                            53      47      49
                                                                                expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)                                                                                                                                                       185
                                                                                   [300,1000)>1000                                                      745
                                                                                          >1000            ∞              ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                     ∞ ∞ ∞                                                 ∞                      ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                       ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                       ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        fig9.sl                               inc.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     matrix2.sl     sum1.sl         sum3.sl        sum4.sl
                                                                                                             anfp-new.slarray-new.sl                               dec-new.sl             ex11-new.sl            ex14-new.slfig1-new.sl        fig9_vars.sl                           inc_simp.slinc_vars.sl
                                                                                                                             cegar1-new.sl  cegar2-new.sl  cggmp-new.sl                                                                                formula22.slformula25.slformula27.sl                                 sum1_vars.sl   sum3_vars.sl    sum4_simp.slsum4_vars.sltacas_vars.sl
                                                                                                                                                                          dec_simpl-new.sldec_vars-new.slex11_vars-new.sl       fig1_vars-new.sl                                                             matrix2_simp.sl
                                                                                                                                    cegar1_vars-new.slcegar2_vars-new.sl                         ex11_simpl-new.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                benchmarks
                                                                                                                                                                                               Invaraint Generation Track - Part 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Alchemist CS                               CVC4-1.5                            ICE DT
                                                                                                            3       3       3       0       0       1       3       3      2       3       2       2       2       2       3       3      3       2       2       0       3       3       3       1      0       3       3       3       2       2       2       3      3
                                                                                           >3600                                   ∞ ∞ ∞                                  ∞               ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                ∞ ∞ ∞                                           ∞ ∞                                    ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                  [1000,3600)[100,300)    1864                                                                                                                          1653                                                                           2222
                                                                                    [300,1000)[30,100)                                                                            711                                                                           736                                                            675
                                                                                      [100,300)[10,30)                                                            148
                                                                                        [30,100)[3,10)                                                     51                                                                                                                                                   65
                                                                                          [10,30)[1,3)                                             13                                                                             14
                                                                                wallclock-time[3,10)[0,1)
                                                                                              [1,3)0                                                                                                       1       1                                                                              2
                                                                                              [0,1)         0       1       1       0       0               0       0      1       0       0       1                       1       0      0       0       0               1       1       1              0       0       0       0       1       1       1       1      1
                                                                                            [1,10)
                                                                                          [10,30)[1,10)     7       7       7                               7       7              9       8                               7       7      7                               7       7       7                      7       7       8                               7      9
                                                                                        [30,100)[10,30)                                                    21      21      21                     29                              23      23     11      17                                      13             17      17      23      13      27      27
                                                                                      [100,300)[30,100)                                            59                                                     35
                                                                                expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)121                                                                                                  170
                                                                                    [300,1000)>1000
                                                                                           >1000                                   ∞ ∞ ∞                                  ∞               ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                ∞ ∞ ∞                                           ∞ ∞                                    ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          w1.sl
                                                                                                              tacas.sltreax1.sl       trex3.sl       v/anfp.slv/array.sl                                                    v/dec.sl                v/ex11.sl              v/ex14.sl               v/ex23.sl       v/ex7.sl        v/fig1.sl      v/fig3.sl       vsend.sl
                                                                                                                              trex1_vars.sl  trex3_vars.sl                           v/cegar1.sl     v/cegar2.sl    v/cggmp.sl              v/dec_vars.sl                                                                  v/ex7_vars.sl
                                                                                                                                                                     v/array_simp.slv/array_vars.sl                                 v/dec_simpl.sl                  v/ex11_vars.sl v/ex14_simp.slv/ex14_vars.slv/ex23_vars.sl             v/fig1_vars.sl  v/fig3_vars.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                             v/cegar1_vars.slv/cegar2_vars.sl                               v/ex11_simpl.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 benchmarks
                                                                                                                                                            Figure 3: Evaluation of INV benchmarks.
                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                 19
                 solved cegar-new.sl, three solvers solved array-new.sl, and no solver solved matrix2.sl or
                 matrix2-simp.sl. Note that the reason matrix2.sl has 1 as the lower time bound, is that that is
                 the time to terminate rather than the time to solve. Thus, one of the solvers has terminated within less
                 than 1 second, but either it did not produce a result, or it produced an incorrect result. When no solver
                 produced a correct result, there will be no colored squares/rectangles next to the lower parts of the bars.
                     Figures 3-11 presents the results of each benchmark in the competition. The results are organized
                 per category. The results for ICFP category are not included, since only one benchmark was solved. This
                 benchmark is the icfp 28 10.sl benchmark, it was solved by CVC4-1.5-SYGUS and SOSYTOAST, in
                 both conﬁgurations. The two solvers (in the overall three conﬁgurations) terminated in less than two
                 seconds, producing an expression of size two. It seems that the solvers ﬁnd it difﬁcult to handle the
                 benchmarks in this category since the speciﬁcation constraints are too partial.
                 3.4   Observations
                 Correlating the number of instances solved by the different solvers (as depicted in Fig. 2) and the features
                 a certain category has (as detailed in Table. 3.2) the following observations can be made:
                     • The CVC4-1.5-SYGUS solver preforms best on benchmarks with single invocation and a single
                       unknown.
                     • The ICE-DT solver, designated to solve invariant synthesis problems, does best on invariant syn-
                       thesis problems, which are multiple invocation.
                     • The ENUMERATIVE and STOCHASTIC solver preform well on multiple invocation problems (of
                       the general track).
                     • The SKETCH-AC solver preforms well on benchmarks with a restricted grammar.
                     Wenote that we have tested the solvers submitted to the general track on the instances of the INV
                 and LIA track translated to general SyGuS. None of them solved any of those instances. For most
                 of the solvers the problem seemed to be lack of support for arbitrary constants — the translation to
                 general SyGuS included the grammar term (Constant Int) which allows any integer to appear in the
                 speciﬁcation, and the solvers for the general track that mostly build on guiding the search according
                 to the syntactic structure do not support this construct. The reason CVC4-1.5-SYGUS failed on these
                 benchmarksisthatitwasn’tdesignedtosupportthelesscommonBooleanconnectivessuchasnandand
                 xnor that the translation to general SyGuS allowed in order to be as permissive as possible. For next
                 year’s competition we plan to test the general solvers on a restricted, yet general, subset of LIA, e.g. one
                 consisting of just zero and one as constants and a small subset of the Boolean operators from which the
                 others can be derived (e.g. and, or, and not).
                     Withregardtosizeexpressionswenotethatthe ENUMERATIVEsolverbydeﬁnitionalwaysproduces
                 the smallest expression. Inspecting ﬁgures 3-11 we observe that in many cases most solvers produced
                 expressions of relatively the same size. Though the CVC4-1.5-SYGUS solver often produces very large
                 expressions. Forinstance, onthearray search 7.sbenchmark,inwhichSKETCH-ACproducedanex-
                 pressionofsize31, CVC4-1.5-SYGUS’sexpressionwasofsize3,311,andontheLinExpr inv1 ex.sl,
                 in which both ENUMERATIVE and SKETCH-AC produced an expression of size 14, STOCHASTIC pro-
                 duced an expression of size 42, CVC4-1.5-SYGUS produced an expression of size 4,022. The largest
                 expression produced was for benchmark array search 15.sl. Its size is 1,843,271. It is the solution
                 of CVC4-1.5-SYGUS which is the only solver to solve this benchmark.
                                                          20                                                                                                                                                                                                   Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                                                                                                                                                                                       Linear Integer Arithmetic Track - Part 1
                                                                                                                                                                                        Alchemist CS                                Alchemist CS DT                                   CVC4-1.5
                                                                                                         1      1       1      1      1      1      3      3      3      2      2      2      2      2       1      1      3      3      3      3      2      2      1      1      1       1      1      1      1      1      1      3      3      1      1      1      1
                                                                                        >3600           ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                              ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                      ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                       ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                               [1000,3600)[100,300)                                                                                                                                   2671
                                                                                 [300,1000)[30,100)
                                                                                   [100,300)[10,30)
                                                                                     [30,100)[3,10)
                                                                                       [10,30)[1,3)                                                       11                                                                                   17
                                                                                wallclock-time[3,10)[0,1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4                                  3
                                                                                           [1,3)0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1      2
                                                                                           [0,1)         0      0      0       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1
                                                                                         [1,10)
                                                                                       [10,30)[1,10)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                     [30,100)[10,30)                                               21                                                                     16     11     19     19     28     28                                                                     24
                                                                                   [100,300)[30,100)                                               53     31     41     51     61     71     81      91                                 57     57                                                                                   30
                                                                                expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)                                             109
                                                                                 [300,1000)>1000                                                                                                                                                                   369 678 678                                                                   781 958
                                                                                        >1000           ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                              ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                      ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                       ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fg_fivefuncs.slfg_max10.slfg_max11.slfg_max12.slfg_max13.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      fg_eightfuncs.sl
                                                                                                           fg_array_search_10.slfg_array_search_11.slfg_array_search_12.slfg_array_search_13.slfg_array_search_14.slfg_array_search_15.slfg_array_search_2.slfg_array_search_3.slfg_array_search_4.slfg_array_search_5.slfg_array_search_6.slfg_array_search_7.slfg_array_search_8.slfg_array_search_9.slfg_array_sum_10_5.slfg_array_sum_2_15.slfg_array_sum_2_5.slfg_array_sum_3_15.slfg_array_sum_3_5.slfg_array_sum_4_15.slfg_array_sum_4_5.slfg_array_sum_5_15.slfg_array_sum_6_15.slfg_array_sum_6_5.slfg_array_sum_7_15.slfg_array_sum_7_5.slfg_array_sum_8_15.slfg_array_sum_8_5.slfg_array_sum_9_15.slfg_array_sum_9_5.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                              fg_array_sum_10_15.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               benchmarks
                                                                                                                                                                                        Linear Integer Arithmetic Track - Part 2
                                                                                                                                                                                        Alchemist CS                                Alchemist CS DT                                    CVC4-1.5
                                                                                                          2      0       1      1      3      3       2      2      2      2       2      1      3      2       3      1      3      3       3      3      3       3      3      3      3       3      3      3      3       3      3      3      3       3      2      2
                                                                                         >3600                  ∞ ∞ ∞                                ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                       ∞              ∞                                                                                                                                         ∞ ∞
                                                                                [1000,3600)[100,300)   1890
                                                                                  [300,1000)[30,100)
                                                                                    [100,300)[10,30)
                                                                                      [30,100)[3,10)                                                                                                                         59                                                                       33
                                                                                        [10,30)[1,3)                                                                                                           27
                                                                                wallclock-time[3,10)[0,1) 7             5       7             4
                                                                                            [1,3)0                                                                                                                                                                 2                                                                              2       2
                                                                                            [0,1)                                      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       1      0      1      1      0       1      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0
                                                                                          [1,10)
                                                                                        [10,30)[1,10)                                                                                                                                                                            3                            2      4       7      5
                                                                                      [30,100)[10,30)    10                           11                                                        21                                   24     28     20     23      21                    11     11                                         14      19     18
                                                                                    [100,300)[30,100)    49                                  42      71                                         38             84                                  34     37      77     36                           31                                                        36     36
                                                                                expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)                                               151 242                                     219                   131                                        105
                                                                                  [300,1000)>1000                                                                         346 471 616                         391 505
                                                                                         >1000                  ∞ ∞ ∞                                ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                       ∞              ∞ ∞                                                                                                                                       ∞ ∞
                                                                                                           fg_VC22_a.slfg_VC22_b.slfg_max14.slfg_max15.slfg_max2.slfg_max3.slfg_max4.slfg_max5.slfg_max6.slfg_max7.slfg_max8.slfg_max9.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fg_mpg_ite1.slfg_mpg_ite2.sl        fg_ninefuncs.sl                                    fg_sixfuncs.slfg_tenfunc1.slfg_tenfunc2.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fg_mpg_guard1.slfg_mpg_guard2.slfg_mpg_guard3.slfg_mpg_guard4.slfg_mpg_plane1.slfg_mpg_plane2.slfg_mpg_plane3.slfg_polynomial.slfg_polynomial1.slfg_polynomial2.slfg_polynomial3.slfg_polynomial4.slfg_sevenfuncs.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                   fg_mpg_example1.slfg_mpg_example2.slfg_mpg_example3.slfg_mpg_example4.slfg_mpg_example5.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               benchmarks
                                                                                                                                                             Figure 4: Evaluation of LIA benchmarks.
                                                                    R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Arrays Category
                                                                                                                                                                                         CVC4-1.5                                  Enumerative                                       Sketch-AC                                   SosyToast                                  Stochastic
                                                                                                                                  1         1         1        1         1         1         4         3         2        2         2         2         1         1         1        1         2         3         1         2        1         1         1         1         1         1        1         1         1         1         1
                                                                                                            >3600                ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                  [1000,3600)[100,300)
                                                                                                    [300,1000)[30,100)
                                                                                                       [100,300)[10,30)
                                                                                                         [30,100)[3,10)
                                                                                                           [10,30)[1,3)                                                           12                                                                                       17       17
                                                                                              wallclock-time  [3,10)[0,1)                                      3         7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4         4
                                                                                                                [1,3)0                                1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1         1
                                                                                                                [0,1)             0         1                                                0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0                            0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0
                                                                                                              [1,10)
                                                                                                            [10,30)[1,10)
                                                                                                         [30,100)[10,30)                                                                    11        16        21                                                                            24        14
                                                                                                       [100,300)[30,100)                                                                                                 31        31        36        56                                                                   30
                                                                                              expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)                                                                                                                                                                                       109                189 173
                                                                                                    [300,1000)>1000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     833
                                                                                                            >1000                ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                                                    array_search_10.slarray_search_11.slarray_search_12.slarray_search_13.slarray_search_14.slarray_search_15.slarray_search_2.slarray_search_3.slarray_search_4.slarray_search_5.slarray_search_6.slarray_search_7.slarray_search_8.slarray_search_9.slarray_sum_10_5.slarray_sum_2_15.slarray_sum_2_5.slarray_sum_3_15.slarray_sum_3_5.slarray_sum_4_15.slarray_sum_4_5.slarray_sum_5_15.slarray_sum_6_15.slarray_sum_6_5.slarray_sum_7_15.slarray_sum_7_5.slarray_sum_8_15.slarray_sum_8_5.slarray_sum_9_15.slarray_sum_9_5.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             array_sum_10_15.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          benchmarks
                                                                                                                                                                                    Figure 5: Evaluation of Arrays benchmarks.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Compiler Optimizations and Bitvectors Category
                                                                                                                                                                                             CVC4-1.5                                 Enumerative                                      Sketch-AC                                  SosyToast                                  Stochastic
                                                                                                                                        2           1          2           1          0          0           3          2           0          3           2          1           3          2           0          0           3          1           2          0          0           3          1           0          0           0
                                                                                                                 >3600                 ∞           ∞          ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞
                                                                                                       [1000,3600)[100,300)
                                                                                                         [300,1000)[30,100)
                                                                                                           [100,300)[10,30)
                                                                                                              [30,100)[3,10)
                                                                                                                [10,30)[1,3)
                                                                                              wallclock-time      [3,10)[0,1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                     [1,3)0                                                                                             1           1                                 3                      1           1          1                                  1          1                                 1           1          1           1
                                                                                                                     [0,1)              0           0          0           0          0          0           0                                 0           0                      0                                             0          0                                             0
                                                                                                                   [1,10)
                                                                                                                 [10,30)[1,10)                                                                               7                                 5           9                      7                                             7                                                        7
                                                                                                               [30,100)[10,30)         24                                                                               11                                           11                     13                                            11          13                                           11
                                                                                                            [100,300)[30,100)                      56         34
                                                                                              expr-size   [300,1000)[100,300)                                            106
                                                                                                         [300,1000)>1000
                                                                                                                 >1000                 ∞           ∞          ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞          ∞           ∞
                                                                                                                                                                                        BitVectors/parity.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CompOpts/qm_loop_1.slCompOpts/qm_loop_2.slCompOpts/qm_loop_3.slCompOpts/qm_max2.slCompOpts/qm_max3.slCompOpts/qm_max4.slCompOpts/qm_max5.slCompOpts/qm_neg_1.slCompOpts/qm_neg_2.slCompOpts/qm_neg_3.slCompOpts/qm_neg_4.slCompOpts/qm_neg_5.sl
                                                                                                                                          BitVectors/parity-AIG-d0.slBitVectors/parity-AIG-d1.sl   CompOpts/qm_area_sel_2.slCompOpts/qm_choose_01.slCompOpts/qm_choose_yz.slCompOpts/qm_in_range.sl                                                                                        CompOpts/qm_neg_eq_1.slCompOpts/qm_neg_eq_2.slCompOpts/qm_neg_eq_3.slCompOpts/qm_neg_eq_4.slCompOpts/qm_neg_eq_5.sl
                                                                                                                                                                 BitVectors/parity-NAND-d0.slBitVectors/parity-NAND-d1.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             benchmarks
                                                                                                                         Figure 6: Evaluation of Compiler Optimization and Bitvectors benchmarks.
                         22                                                                                   Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                                                                                    Let and Motion Planning Category
                                                                     CVC4-1.5       Enumerative       Sketch-AC       SosyToast      Stochastic
                                                 0   0    0   0   0   0   1   0   1   1   0   0   0   0   0   2   1   2   1   1   0   3   1   3    1   1   0
                                         >3600   ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                    ∞       ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                     [1000,3600)[100,300)
                                      [300,1000)[30,100)                                                             345
                                       [100,300)[10,30)
                                        [30,100)[3,10)                                                        45
                                         [10,30)[1,3)                        25           11  15  18  20  19
                                   wallclock-time[3,10)[0,1)
                                          [1,3)0                                                                      1   1   1   1               2    2   2
                                          [0,1)  0   0    0   0   0   0   0       0   0                       0   0                   0   0   0
                                          [1,10)
                                         [10,30)[1,10)                                                        1   1   1   7   1       1   1   7   7
                                        [30,100)[10,30)                  16      22  28                                                               13
                                       [100,300)[30,100)
                                   expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)
                                      [300,1000)>1000
                                         >1000   ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                          Let/logcount.slLet/logcount2.slLet/twolets1.slLet/twolets10.slLet/twolets3.slLet/twolets4.slLet/twolets5.slLet/twolets6.slLet/twolets7.slLet/twolets8.slLet/twolets9.sl
                                                  Let/logcount-d1.slLet/logcount-d5.slLet/logcount2-d1.slLet/logcount2-d5.sl
                                                                                                               MotPlan/mpgL_d1s3.slMotPlan/mpgL_d1s7.slMotPlan/mpgL_d4s3.slMotPlan/mpgL_d4s7.slMotPlan/mpgL_d5s3.slMotPlan/mpgL_d5s7.slMotPlan/mpgoL_d1s3.slMotPlan/mpgoL_d1s7.slMotPlan/mpgoL_d4s3.slMotPlan/mpgoL_d4s7.slMotPlan/mpgoL_d5s3.slMotPlan/mpgoL_d5s7.sl
                                                                                                  benchmarks
                                                      Figure 7: Evaluation of Let and Motion Planning benchmarks.
                         4      Discussion
                         Thesyntax-guidedsynthesiscompetitionofthisyear(SyGuS-Comp’15)addedtwospecialtracks,above
                         the general track of last year’s competition: The LIA track where the background theory is conditional
                         linear integer arithmetic and no grammar is given, instead the grammar is implicitly assumed to be that
                         of the LIA logic of SMT-LIB; and the INV track (also using LIA and no syntactic constraints) consisting
                         of invariant synthesis problems and using special constructs that convey the structure of an invariant
                         synthesis problem.
                               A total of eight solvers were submitted to this year’s competition. On the LIA and INV tracks
                         competed three solvers (with an overlap of two), and in the general track competed ﬁve solvers in seven
                         conﬁgurations. The winner of the LIA track and general track was the CVC4-1.5-SYGUS solver [14],
                         which is the only solver to participate in all tracks and the ﬁrst solver to implement a syntax-guided
                         synthesis engine inside an SMT solver. The winner of the INV track was the ICE-DT solver [11], a
                         special solver for invariant synthesis problems.
                               Weclassiﬁed the benchmarks participating in the competition into several categories and analyzed
                         the features a certain category has or has not. Correlating the results with the features we observe that
                         CVC4-1.5-SYGUS preforms best on benchmarks where there is a single function to be synthesized,
                         and that function is always invoked using the same set of parameters. On benchmarks with multiple
                         functions to synthesize or in which functions are invoked with different parameters, the ENUMERATIVE
                         and STOCHASTIC solver (which won ﬁrst and second place in last year’s competition) seem to preform
                         better.
                               We hope this report sheds some light on the correlations of solver’s performance and benchmark
                         features, and can be of help to improve the development of future solvers. In next year’s competition we
                         are considering devoting a track to benchmarks where obtaining a small expression is more crucial than
                         obtaining it fast, as is the case for instance, in compiler optimization problems.
                                                          R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  23
                                                                                                                                                                                     Invaraint Generation with Bounded Integers
                                                                                                                                                              CVC4-1.5                           Enumerative                               Sketch-AC                            SosyToast                           Stochastic
                                                                                                                 2        0        3        4        1        2        2        3         3        2        3        2        3        2        0        2        2        0        3         3        3        3        3        3        4        2        3        3
                                                                                              >3600             ∞ ∞ ∞                               ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                       ∞                 ∞                 ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                                                    ∞
                                                                                     [1000,3600)[100,300)                                 1960                                                                                                                                                      2425
                                                                                       [300,1000)[30,100)                                                                                                                   304                                                                                                 897      400
                                                                                         [100,300)[10,30)                                                                                                 146                                                                      135                                 234
                                                                                           [30,100)[3,10)                                                                                                                                                                                    74
                                                                                             [10,30)[1,3)                                                                                13                                                    14                                                                                                           12
                                                                                wallclock-time [3,10)[0,1)                5                          3                                                                                                                     4                                    4                                                     7
                                                                                                 [1,3)0          2                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                 [0,1)                             0        0                 0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0                 0                          0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
                                                                                                [1,10)
                                                                                              [10,30)[1,10)
                                                                                            [30,100)[10,30)     19       19       19       19       19        19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19        19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19       19
                                                                                          [100,300)[30,100)
                                                                                expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)
                                                                                       [300,1000)>1000
                                                                                              >1000             ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                                  inv_gen_array.sl   inv_gen_cgr1.slinv_gen_ex14.slinv_gen_ex23.slinv_gen_ex7.slinv_gen_fig1.slinv_gen_fig3.slinv_gen_fig6.slinv_gen_fig8.slinv_gen_fig9.slinv_gen_finf1.slinv_gen_finf2.slinv_gen_tcs.sl                   inv_gen_w1.slinv_gen_w2.sl
                                                                                                                           inv_gen_cegar2.sl                                                                                            inv_gen_n_c11.slinv_gen_sum1.slinv_gen_sum3.slinv_gen_sum4.slinv_gen_term2.slinv_gen_term3.slinv_gen_trex1.slinv_gen_trex2.slinv_gen_trex4.slinv_gen_vmail.slinv_gen_winf1.slinv_gen_winf2.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  benchmarks
                                                                                                                                                                                  Invaraint Generation with Unbounded Integers
                                                                                                                                                              CVC4-1.5                           Enumerative                               Sketch-AC                            SosyToast                           Stochastic
                                                                                                                 4        0        4        5        1        4        2        5         4        5        4        5        5        3        0        5        2        0        4         5        3        5        4        4        5        5        4        4
                                                                                              >3600             ∞ ∞                                 ∞                 ∞                                                               ∞ ∞                        ∞ ∞                                  ∞
                                                                                     [1000,3600)[100,300)                        2678 1838                  1083              1045                                                                                                                                                                1178
                                                                                       [300,1000)[30,100)                                                                                                                                              466
                                                                                         [100,300)[10,30)                                                                                                 281      214      104                                                                                                          153
                                                                                           [30,100)[3,10)                                                                                                                                                                           33                                  61
                                                                                             [10,30)[1,3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14                         13
                                                                                wallclock-time [3,10)[0,1)                5                          3                                    4        5                                            5                 5        5                  7                 5                                                     4
                                                                                                 [1,3)0
                                                                                                 [0,1)           0                 0        0                 0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0                 0                          0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
                                                                                                [1,10)
                                                                                              [10,30)[1,10)
                                                                                            [30,100)[10,30)     19       23       21       23       19       23        19       23       19       19       25       25       19       19       23       19       19        21       27       21       21       19       21       25       19       25       19       19
                                                                                          [100,300)[30,100)                       31
                                                                                expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)
                                                                                       [300,1000)>1000
                                                                                              >1000             ∞ ∞                                 ∞                 ∞                                                               ∞ ∞                        ∞ ∞                                  ∞
                                                                                                                  unbdd_inv_gen_array.slunbdd_inv_gen_cgr1.slunbdd_inv_gen_ex14.slunbdd_inv_gen_ex23.slunbdd_inv_gen_ex7.slunbdd_inv_gen_fig1.slunbdd_inv_gen_fig3.slunbdd_inv_gen_fig6.slunbdd_inv_gen_fig8.slunbdd_inv_gen_fig9.slunbdd_inv_gen_finf1.slunbdd_inv_gen_finf2.slunbdd_inv_gen_tcs.slunbdd_inv_gen_w1.slunbdd_inv_gen_w2.sl
                                                                                                                           unbdd_inv_gen_cegar2.sl                                                                                      unbdd_inv_gen_n_c11.slunbdd_inv_gen_sum1.slunbdd_inv_gen_sum3.slunbdd_inv_gen_sum4.slunbdd_inv_gen_term2.slunbdd_inv_gen_term3.slunbdd_inv_gen_trex1.slunbdd_inv_gen_trex2.slunbdd_inv_gen_trex4.slunbdd_inv_gen_vmail.slunbdd_inv_gen_winf1.slunbdd_inv_gen_winf2.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  benchmarks
                                                          Figure 8: Evaluation of Invariant Generations with/without unbounded integers benchmarks. (These are
                                                          benchmarks from the general track.)
                                                           24                                                                                                                                                                                                      Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hackers Delight Category
                                                                                                                                                          CVC4-1.5                             Enumerative                                Sketch-AC                              SosyToast                             Stochastic
                                                                                                        4     5     5     5     5     5     5      5     5     5     5     5     5     5     5      5     5     5     5     5     5     5      5     5     4     4     5     4     2     2      3     2     2     4     1     5     4      3     2     1     1     0     0     0
                                                                                       >3600                                                                                                                                                              ∞ ∞               ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                        ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                              [1000,3600)[100,300)                                                                                                                        1062                    2226
                                                                                [300,1000)[30,100)                                                                                                                                                                   439                                                    358
                                                                                  [100,300)[10,30)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            276
                                                                                    [30,100)[3,10)           44                43                                   42                42                 42          92                       59                                                     79                97                                         70 61
                                                                                      [10,30)[1,3)                                                                                                 15                            12 12                                                         11
                                                                                  wallclock-time[3,10)[0,1)10       8     6                 4     10           6           3     9           3                  7
                                                                                           [1,3)0                                     3                  3                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                           [0,1)        0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0     0     0     0                  0                 0     0     0      0     0     0
                                                                                        [1,10)
                                                                                      [10,30)[1,10)     5     5     5     7     7     4     6      5     5     5     5     5     7     7     5      5     6     9     9     9     6     9      5     9     9     7     8     8     8     9      9     9     9     9     9     9     8     8
                                                                                    [30,100)[10,30)          14                                                                                                                               10 15                   17                                                     11                 19 19 19
                                                                                  [100,300)[30,100)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37
                                                                                [300,1000)[100,300)
                                                                                  expr-size
                                                                                [300,1000)>1000
                                                                                       >1000                                                                                                                                                              ∞ ∞               ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                        ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                         hd-01-d1-prog.slhd-01-d5-prog.slhd-02-d0-prog.slhd-02-d1-prog.slhd-02-d5-prog.slhd-03-d0-prog.slhd-03-d1-prog.slhd-03-d5-prog.slhd-04-d0-prog.slhd-04-d1-prog.slhd-04-d5-prog.slhd-05-d0-prog.slhd-05-d1-prog.slhd-05-d5-prog.slhd-06-d0-prog.slhd-06-d1-prog.slhd-06-d5-prog.slhd-07-d0-prog.slhd-07-d1-prog.slhd-07-d5-prog.slhd-08-d0-prog.slhd-08-d1-prog.slhd-08-d5-prog.slhd-09-d0-prog.slhd-09-d1-prog.slhd-09-d5-prog.slhd-13-d0-prog.slhd-13-d1-prog.slhd-13-d5-prog.slhd-14-d0-prog.slhd-14-d1-prog.slhd-14-d5-prog.slhd-15-d0-prog.slhd-15-d1-prog.slhd-15-d5-prog.slhd-17-d0-prog.slhd-17-d1-prog.slhd-17-d5-prog.slhd-19-d0-prog.slhd-19-d1-prog.slhd-19-d5-prog.slhd-20-d0-prog.slhd-20-d1-prog.slhd-20-d5-prog.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 benchmarks
                                                                                                                                          Figure 9: Evaluation of Hacker’s Delight benchmarks.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Integers Category
                                                                                                                                                             CVC4-1.5                             Enumerative                                Sketch-AC                             SosyToast                            Stochastic
                                                                                                             1       1       4      4       5       5       1       1      1       1       1       1      5       4       2       1      1       1       1       1       1      1       1       1       1      3       3       3       2      2       2       4       3       2
                                                                                           >3600            ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                        ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                           ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                                                                 ∞ ∞
                                                                                  [1000,3600)[100,300)
                                                                                    [300,1000)[30,100)
                                                                                      [100,300)[10,30)
                                                                                        [30,100)[3,10)
                                                                                          [10,30)[1,3)                                                                                                   28
                                                                                 wallclock-time[3,10)[0,1)                                  4       6                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                              [1,3)0                         1
                                                                                              [0,1)          0       0              0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0
                                                                                             [1,10)
                                                                                           [10,30)[1,10)                                    3       1                                                     6                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                         [30,100)[10,30)                    10      14                                                                           15                                                                                            12     14      16                                     17      29
                                                                                      [100,300)[30,100)                                                                                                                  55      93                                                                                                   33      45
                                                                                 expr-size[300,1000)[100,300)                                                                                                                           139 196 270                    127 259                                                                      105
                                                                                    [300,1000)>1000                                                       460 552 673 808 957                                                                                  358
                                                                                           >1000            ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                        ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                           ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                                                                             max10.slmax11.slmax12.slmax13.slmax14.slmax15.slmax2.slmax3.slmax4.sl max5.sl max6.sl max7.slmax8.sl max9.sl
                                                                                                                                                     constant.sl                                                                                                                                                                                mpg_ite1.slmpg_ite2.sl
                                                                                                                              LinExpr_inv1.sl commutative.sl                                                                                                                                                     mpg_guard1.slmpg_guard2.slmpg_guard3.slmpg_guard4.slmpg_plane1.slmpg_plane2.slmpg_plane3.sl
                                                                                                               LinExpr_eq1ex.slLinExpr_eq2ex.slLinExpr_inv1_ex.sl                                                                                                         mpg_example1.slmpg_example2.slmpg_example3.slmpg_example4.slmpg_example5.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   benchmarks
                                                                                                                                                       Figure 10: Evaluation of Integers benchmarks.
                                                          R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Multiple Functions Category
                                                                                                                                                          CVC4-1.5                            Enumerative                                 Sketch-AC                             SosyToast                             Stochastic
                                                                                                        0      0     1      0     0      4     4      4     4      4     0      0     0      0     0      4     0      0      5     5      4     4      0     4      0     4      0     0      0     0      0     0      0      2     0      0     0      0     0      0     0
                                                                                       >3600           ∞            ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                                       ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                   ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                              [1000,3600)[100,300)
                                                                                [300,1000)[30,100)
                                                                                  [100,300)[10,30)
                                                                                    [30,100)[3,10)     61                        59
                                                                                      [10,30)[1,3)                  13                                                                                          23                                     17           16                                                  22           25 25                     17
                                                                                 wallclock-time[3,10)[0,1)    4             6                                                                                                                                                     5     5      5     5                                             5      5            5     5
                                                                                           [1,3)0                                                                                                                             2     2                                                                       1      1            2
                                                                                           [0,1)               0                         0     0      0     0      0                                      0            0      0     0      0     0            0            0      0     0      0     0      0     0                                0      0     0      0     0
                                                                                         [1,10)
                                                                                      [10,30)[1,10)                                      2     2      4     4      8                                      7                   6     1      3     9            9            7
                                                                                    [30,100)[10,30)                 27                                                                                                                                                                                                         26
                                                                                  [100,300)[30,100)
                                                                                [300,1000)[100,300)
                                                                                 expr-size
                                                                                [300,1000)>1000
                                                                                       >1000           ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞                                                                                                ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞
                                                                                                                                                                           s0.sl                     s1.sl  s10.sls11.sl s12.sls2.sl  s3.sl s4.sl  s5.sl s6.sl  s7.sl s8.sl  s9.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                 s0_d0.sls0_d1.sls0_d2.sl                                                                                                                                            three.sl
                                                                                                                             fivefuncs.slninefuncs.sl                                                                                                                              seven_c1.slseven_c2.slseven_c3.slseven_c4.sl  sixfuncs.sltenfunc1.sltenfunc2.slthree_d0.slthree_d1.slthree_d2.slthree_d3.sl
                                                                                                          eightfuncs.sl                   polynomial.slpolynomial1.slpolynomial2.slpolynomial3.slpolynomial4.sl                                                                                                            sevenfuncs.sl
                                                                                                                fGeneral_plus10.slfivefuncs-copy.sl                                                                                                                                                          seven_three_d0.slseven_three_d1.sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                benchmarks
                                                                                                                               Figure 11: Evaluation of the Multiple Functions benchmarks.
                                                          Acknowledgments
                                                          Wewouldliketothankthefollowingpeopleforvariousinterestingdiscussionsrelatedtothecompetition,
                                                          its tracks, the SyGuS format and various other topics related to syntax-guided synthesis: Sarah Chasins,
                                                          Ruediger Ehlers, Pranav Garg, Viktor Kuncak, P. Madhusudan, Ken McMillan, Daniel Neider, Nissim
                                                          Ofek,ArjunRadhakrishna,MukundRaghothama,AndrewReynolds,HeinzRiener,ShambwadityaSaha
                                                          and Abhishek Udupa.
                                                                       WewouldliketothankstheStarExecteam,andespeciallyAaronStump,forallowingustousetheir
                                                          platform and for their remarkable support for SyGuS-Comp’s special needs.
                                                                       This research was supported by US NSF grant CCF-1138996 (ExCAPE).
                                                          References
                                                                                                                                                           ´
                                                              [1] Rajeev Alur, Rastislav Bodık, Eric Dallal, Dana Fisman, Pranav Garg, Garvit Juniwal, Hadas Kress-Gazit,
                                                                           P. Madhusudan, Milo M. K. Martin, Mukund Raghothaman, Shambwaditya Saha, Sanjit A. Seshia, Rishabh
                                                                           Singh, Armando Solar-Lezama, Emina Torlak & Abhishek Udupa (2015): Syntax-Guided Synthesis. In:
                                                                           Dependable Software Systems Engineering, 40, IOS Press, pp. 1–25. doi:10.3233/978-1-61499-495-4-1.
                                                                                                                                                          ´
                                                              [2] Rajeev Alur, Rastislav Bodık, Garvit Juniwal, Milo M. K. Martin, Mukund Raghothaman, Sanjit A. Seshia,
                                                                           Rishabh Singh, Armando Solar-Lezama, Emina Torlak & Abhishek Udupa (2013): Syntax-guided synthesis.
                                                                           In: Formal Methods in Computer-Aided Design, FMCAD 2013, Portland, OR, USA, October 20-23, 2013,
                                                                           pp. 1–8.
                                                                                                                                                     ´
                                                              [3] Rajeev Alur, Pavol Cerny & Arjun Radhakrishna (2015): Synthesis Through Uniﬁcation. In: Computer
                                                                           Aided Veriﬁcation - 27th International Conference, CAV 2015, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 18-24, 2015,
                                                                           Proceedings, Part II, pp. 163–179. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-21668-3 10.
                                                                                                                                                     ´
                                                              [4] Rajeev Alur, Pavol Cerny & Arjun Radhakrishna (2015): Synthesis Through Uniﬁcation. In: Computer
                                                                           Aided Veriﬁcation - 27th International Conference, CAV 2015, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 18-24, 2015,
                                                                           Proceedings, Part II, pp. 163–179. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-21668-3 10.
                                                              [5] David R. Cok (2013): The SMT-LIBv2 Language and Tools: A Tutorial.
                   26                                                               Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                                                 ¨
                     [6] Pranav Garg, Christof Loding, P. Madhusudan & Daniel Neider (2014): ICE: A Robust Framework for
                         Learning Invariants. In: Computer Aided Veriﬁcation - 26th International Conference, CAV 2014, Held as
                         Part of the Vienna Summer of Logic, VSL 2014, Vienna, Austria, July 18-22, 2014. Proceedings, pp. 69–87.
                         doi:10.1007/978-3-319-08867-9 5.
                     [7] Pranav Garg, Daniel Neider, P. Madhusudan, & Dan Roth (2015): Learning Invariants using Decision Trees
                         andImplication Counterexamples. Technical report.
                     [8] Jinseong Jeon, Xiaokang Qiu, Armando Solar-Lezama & Jeffrey S. Foster (2015): Adaptive Concretization
                         for Parallel Program Synthesis. In: Computer Aided Veriﬁcation - 27th International Conference, CAV
                         2015, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 18-24, 2015, Proceedings, Part II, pp. 377–394. doi:10.1007/978-3-
                         319-21668-3 22.
                     [9] SusmitJha, SumitGulwani,SanjitA.Seshia&AshishTiwari(2010): Oracle-guidedComponent-basedPro-
                         gramSynthesis. In: Proceedings of the 32Nd ACM/IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering
                         - Volume 1, ICSE ’10, pp. 215–224. doi:10.1145/1806799.1806833.
                   [10] Aleksandar Milicevic, Joseph P. Near, Eunsuk Kang & Daniel Jackson (2015): Alloy*: A General-Purpose
                         Higher-Order Relational Constraint Solver. In: 37th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software En-
                         gineering, ICSE2015,Florence,Italy, May16-24,2015,Volume1,pp.609–619.doi:10.1109/ICSE.2015.77.
                   [11] Daniel Neider, P. Madhusudan & Pranav Garg (2015): ICE DT: Learning Invariants using Decision Trees
                         andImplication Counterexamples. Private Communication.
                   [12] Daniel Neider, Shambwaditya Saha & P. Madhusudan (2015): Alchemist CS: An SMT-based synthesizer for
                         Functions in Linear Integer Arithmetic. Private Communication.
                   [13] MukundRaghothaman&AbhishekUdupa(2014): LanguagetoSpecifySyntax-GuidedSynthesis Problems.
                         CoRRabs/1405.5590.
                   [14] Andrew Reynolds, Morgan Deters, Viktor Kuncak, Cesare Tinelli & Clark W. Barrett (2015):
                         Counterexample-Guided Quantiﬁer Instantiation for Synthesis in SMT. In: Computer Aided Veriﬁcation
                         - 27th International Conference, CAV 2015, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 18-24, 2015, Proceedings, Part
                         II, pp. 198–216. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-21668-3 12.
                   [15] Heinz Riener & Rudiger Ehlers (2015): absTract sOlution Analyzing Synthesis Tool (System Description).
                         Private Communication.
                   [16] ShambwadityaSaha,PranavGarg&P.Madhusudan(2015): Alchemist: LearningGuardedAfﬁneFunctions.
                         In: Computer Aided Veriﬁcation - 27th International Conference, CAV 2015, San Francisco, CA, USA, July
                         18-24, 2015, Proceedings, Part I, pp. 440–446. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-21690-4 26.
                   [17] ShambwadityaSaha,DanielNeider&P.Madhusudan(2015): AlchemistCSDT:SynthesizingGuardedAfﬁne
                         Functions using Constraint Solving and Decision-tree Learning. Private Communication.
                                                                                   ´
                   [18] Armando Solar-Lezama, Rodric M. Rabbah, Rastislav Bodık & Kemal Ebcioglu (2005): Programming
                         by sketching for bit-streaming programs.  In: Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN 2005 Conference on
                         Programming Language Design and Implementation, Chicago, IL, USA, June 12-15, 2005, pp. 281–294.
                         doi:10.1145/1065010.1065045.
                   [19] Armando Solar-Lezama, Liviu Tancau, Rastislav Bodik, Vijay Saraswat & Sanjit Seshia (2006): Combina-
                         torial Sketching for Finite Programs. In: ASPLOS ’06, ACM Press, San Jose, CA, USA, pp. 404–415.
                         doi:10.1145/1168857.1168907.
                   [20] SaurabhSrivastava,SumitGulwani&JeffreyFoster(2010): Fromprogramveriﬁcationtoprogramsynthesis.
                         POPL.doi:10.1145/1706299.1706337.
                   [21] Aaron Stump, Geoff Sutcliffe & Cesare Tinelli (2014): StarExec: A Cross-Community Infrastructure for
                         Logic Solving. In: Automated Reasoning - 7th International Joint Conference, IJCAR 2014, Held as Part
                         of the Vienna Summer of Logic, VSL 2014, Vienna, Austria, July 19-22, 2014. Proceedings, pp. 367–373.
                         doi:10.1007/978-3-319-08587-6 28.
                                                      ´
                   [22] Emina Torlak & Rastislav Bodık (2014): A lightweight symbolic virtual machine for solver-aided host lan-
                         guages. In: PLDI, p. 54. doi:10.1145/2594291.2594340.
