                       Figure 6: Samples of programmatic tasks. Note that training samples will sample literal length up to
                       including the maximum length.
                              Figure 7: Memorization tasks. Each sub-task takes the form of a list permutation.
                       Asseeninﬁgure8theRMCtendstoquicklyachievehighperformancerelativetothebaselines,thisdemonstrates
                       gooddata efﬁciency for these tasks especially when compared to the LSTM. From the same ﬁgure and table 1
                       (the results in the table depict converged accuracy scores for nesting 2 and literal length 5) it is also clear that the
                       RMCscoreswellamongthefullsetofprogramevaluation tasks where the DNC faltered on the control task
                       and the EntNet on copy and double tasks. It should ﬁnally be noted that due to the RMC model size scaling
                       with respect to total memory size over number of memories and consequently the top performing LSTM models
                       contained many more parameters than the top performing RMC models.
                       A.3  Viewport BoxWorld
                       WestudyavariantofBoxWorld,whichisapixel-based,highlycombinatorialreinforcementlearningenvironment
                       that demands relational reasoning-based planning, initially developed in [46]. It consists of a grid of 14 × 14
                       pixels: grey pixels denote the background, lone colored pixels are keys that can be picked up, and duples of
                       colored pixels are locks and keys, where the right pixel of the duple denotes the color of the lock (and hence
                       the color of the key that is needed to open the lock), and the left pixel denotes the color of the key that would
                       be obtained should the agent open the lock. The agent is denoted by a dark grey pixel, and has four actions:
                       up, down, left, right. To make this task demand relational reasoning in a memory space, the agent only has
                       perceptual access to a 5 × 5 RGB window, or viewport, appended with an extra frame denoting the color of the
                                                              15
