
===== PAGE 1 =====
                             Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                             RECURRENT EXPERIENCE REPLAY IN
                             DISTRIBUTED REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
                                                                                           ´
                               Steven Kapturowski, Georg Ostrovski, John Quan, Remi Munos, Will Dabney
                               DeepMind,London,UK
                               {skapturowski,ostrovski,johnquan,munos,wdabney}@google.com
                                                                          ABSTRACT
                                       Building on the recent successes of distributed training of RL agents, in this paper
                                       we investigate the training of RNN-based RL agents from distributed prioritized
                                       experience replay. We study the effects of parameter lag resulting in represen-
                                       tational drift and recurrent state staleness and empirically derive an improved
                                       training strategy.  Using a single network architecture and ﬁxed set of hyper-
                                       parameters, the resulting agent, Recurrent Replay Distributed DQN, quadruples
                                       the previous state of the art on Atari-57, and matches the state of the art on
                                       DMLab-30. It is the ﬁrst agent to exceed human-level performance in 52 of the
                                       57Atari games.
                             1    INTRODUCTION
                             Reinforcement Learning (RL) has seen a rejuvenation of research interest recently due to repeated
                             successes in solving challenging problems such as reaching human-level play on Atari 2600 games
                             (Mnihetal., 2015), beating the world champion in the game of Go (Silver et al., 2017), and playing
                             competitive 5-player DOTA (OpenAI, 2018b). The earliest of these successes leveraged experience
                             replay for data efﬁciency and stacked a ﬁxed number of consecutive frames to overcome the partial
                             observability in Atari 2600 games. However, with progress towards increasingly difﬁcult, partially
                             observable domains, the need for more advanced memory-based representations increases, neces-
                             sitating more principled solutions such as recurrent neural networks (RNNs). The use of LSTMs
                             (Hochreiter & Schmidhuber, 1997) within RL has been widely adopted to overcome partial observ-
                             ability (Hausknecht & Stone, 2015; Mnih et al., 2016; Espeholt et al., 2018; Gruslys et al., 2018).
                             In this paper we investigate the training of RNNs with experience replay. We have three primary
                             contributions. First, we demonstrate the effect of experience replay on parameter lag, leading to
                             representational drift and recurrent state staleness. This is potentially exacerbated in the distributed
                             training setting, and ultimately results in diminished training stability and performance. Second, we
                             perform an empirical study into the effects of several approaches to RNN training with experience
                             replay, mitigating the aforementioned effects. Third, we present an agent that integrates these ﬁnd-
                             ings to achieve signiﬁcant advances in the state of the art on Atari-57 (Bellemare et al., 2013) and
                             matches the state of the art on DMLab-30 (Beattie et al., 2016). To the best of our knowledge, our
                             agent, Recurrent Replay Distributed DQN (R2D2), is the ﬁrst to achieve this using a single network
                             architecture and ﬁxed set of hyper-parameters.
                             2    BACKGROUND
                             2.1   REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
                             Our work is set within the Reinforcement Learning (RL) framework (Sutton & Barto, 1998), in
                             which an agent interacts with an environment to maximize the sum of discounted, γ ∈ [0,1), re-
                             wards. We model the environment as a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP)
                             givenbythetuple(S,A,T,R,Ω,O)(Monahan,1982;Jaakkolaetal.,1995;Kaelblingetal.,1998).
                             The underlying Markov Decision Process (MDP) is deﬁned by (S, A, T, R), where S is the set of
                             states, A the set of actions, T a transition function mapping state-actions to probability distributions
                             over next states, and R : S ×A → R is the reward function. Finally, Ω gives the set of observations
                                                                                 1

===== PAGE 2 =====
                         Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                         potentially received by the agent and O is the observation function mapping (unobserved) states to
                         probability distributions over observations.
                         Within this framework, the agent receives an observation o ∈ Ω, which may only contain partial
                         informationabouttheunderlyingstates ∈ S. Whentheagenttakesanactiona ∈ Atheenvironment
                                                        0                                              0        0
                         responds by transitioning to state s ∼ T(·|s,a) and giving the agent a new observation o ∼ Ω(·|s )
                         and reward r ∼ R(s,a).
                         AlthoughtherearemanyapproachestoRLinPOMDPs,wefocusonusingrecurrentneuralnetworks
                         (RNNs) with backpropagation through time (BPTT) (Werbos, 1990) to learn a representation that
                         disambiguates the true state of the POMDP.
                         The Deep Q-Network agent (DQN) (Mnih et al., 2015) learns to play games from the Atari-57
                         benchmark by using frame-stacking of 4 consecutive frames as observations, and training a convo-
                         lutional network to represent a value function with Q-learning (Watkins & Dayan, 1992), from data
                         continuously collected in a replay buffer (Lin, 1993). Other algorithms like the A3C (Mnih et al.,
                         2016), use an LSTM and are trained directly on the online stream of experience without using a
                         replay buffer. Hausknecht & Stone (2015) combined DQN with an LSTM by storing sequences in
                         replay and initializing the recurrent state to zero during training.
                         2.2  DISTRIBUTED REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
                         Recent advances in reinforcement learning have achieved signiﬁcantly improved performance by
                         leveraging distributed training architectures which separate learning from acting, collecting data
                         from many actors running in parallel on separate environment instances (Horgan et al., 2018; Espe-
                         holt et al., 2018; Gruslys et al., 2018; OpenAI, 2018b;a; Jaderberg et al., 2018).
                         Distributed replay allows the Ape-X agent (Horgan et al., 2018) to decouple learning from acting,
                         with actors feeding experience into the distributed replay buffer and the learner receiving (random-
                         ized) training batches from it. In addition to distributed replay with prioritized sampling (Schaul
                         et al., 2016), Ape-X uses n-step return targets (Sutton, 1988), the double Q-learning algorithm
                         (van Hasselt et al., 2016), the dueling DQN network architecture (Wang et al., 2016) and 4-frame-
                         stacking. Ape-Xachievedstate-of-the-art performance on Atari-57, signiﬁcantly out-performing the
                         best single-actor algorithms. It has also been used in continuous control domains and again showed
                         state-of-the-art results, further demonstrating the performance beneﬁts of distributed training in RL.
                         IMPALA (Espeholt et al., 2018) is a distributed reinforcement learning architecture which uses a
                         ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-out queue with a novel off-policy correction algorithm called V-trace, to learn sequen-
                         tially from the stream of experience generated by a large number of independent actors. IMPALA
                         stores sequences of transitions along with an initial recurrent state in the experience queue, and since
                         experience is trained on exactly once, this data generally stays very close to the learner parameters.
                         Espeholt et al. (2018) showed that IMPALA could achieve strong performance in the Atari-57 and
                         DMLab-30 benchmark suites, and furthermore was able to use a single large network to learn all
                         tasks in a benchmark simultaneously while maintaining human-level performance.
                         2.3  THE RECURRENT REPLAY DISTRIBUTED DQN AGENT
                         We propose a new agent, the Recurrent Replay Distributed DQN (R2D2), and use it to study the
                         interplay between recurrent state, experience replay, and distributed training. R2D2 is most similar
                         to Ape-X, built upon prioritized distributed replay and n-step double Q-learning (with n = 5),
                         generating experience by a large number of actors (typically 256) and learning from batches of
                         replayed experience by a single learner. Like Ape-X, we use the dueling network architecture of
                         Wang et al. (2016), but provide an LSTM layer after the convolutional stack, similarly to Gruslys
                         et al. (2018).
                         Instead of regular (s,a,r,s0) transition tuples, we store ﬁxed-length (m = 80) sequences of (s,a,r)
                         in replay, with adjacent sequences overlapping each other by 40 time steps, and never crossing
                         episode boundaries. When training, we unroll both online and target networks (Mnih et al., 2015)
                         onthesamesequenceofstatestogeneratevalueestimates and targets. We leave details of our exact
                         treatment of recurrent states in replay for the next sections.
                                                                    2

===== PAGE 3 =====
                           Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                           Like Ape-X, we use 4-frame-stacks and the full 18-action set when training on Atari. On DMLab,
                           we use single RGB frames as observations, and the same action set discretization as Hessel et al.
                           (2018b). Following the modiﬁed Ape-X version in Pohlen et al. (2018), we do not clip rewards, but
                                                                                                          p
                           instead use an invertible value function rescaling of the form h(x) = sign(x)(   |x| + 1 − 1) + x
                           which results in the following n-step targets for the Q-value function:
                                                                                    !
                                            n−1
                                            X k n−1                          ∗  −          ∗
                                   yˆ = h       r    γ +γ h        Q(s     , a ;θ )    ,  a =argmaxQ(s           , a; θ).
                                    t            t+k                   t+n                                   t+n
                                            k=0                                                     a
                           Here, θ− denotes the target network parameters which are copied from the online network parame-
                           ters θ every 2500 learner steps.
                           Our replay prioritization differs from that of Ape-X in that we use a mixture of max and mean
                                                                                                         ¯
                           absolute n-step TD-errors δ over the sequence: p = ηmax δ + (1 − η)δ. We set η and the
                                                        i                                 i  i
                           priority exponentto0.9. Thismoreaggressiveschemeismotivatedbyourobservationthataveraging
                           over long sequences tends to wash out large errors, thereby compressing the range of priorities and
                           limiting the ability of prioritization to pick out useful experience.
                           Finally, compared to Ape-X, we used the slightly higher discount of γ = 0.997, and disabled the
                           loss-of-life-as-episode-end heuristic that has been used in Atari agents in some of the work since
                           (Mnih et al., 2015). A full list of hyper-parameters is provided in the Appendix.
                           WetraintheR2D2agentwithasingleGPU-basedlearner,performingapproximately5networkup-
                           datespersecond(eachupdateonamini-batchof64length-80sequences),andeachactorperforming
                           ∼260environmentstepspersecondonAtari(∼ 130persecondonDMLab).
                            3   TRAINING RECURRENT RL AGENTS WITH EXPERIENCE REPLAY
                           In order to achieve good performance in a partially observed environment, an RL agent requires
                           a state representation that encodes information about its state-action trajectory in addition to its
                           current observation. The most common way to achieve this is by using an RNN, typically an LSTM
                           (Hochreiter & Schmidhuber, 1997), as part of the agent’s state encoding. To train an RNN from
                           replay and enable it to learn meaningful long-term dependencies, whole state-action trajectories
                           needtobestoredinreplayandusedfortrainingthenetwork. Hausknecht&Stone(2015)compared
                           two strategies of training an LSTM from replayed experience:
                                  • Using a zero start state to initialize the network at the beginning of sampled sequences.
                                  • Replaying whole episode trajectories.
                           The zero start state strategy’s appeal lies in its simplicity, and it allows independent decorrelated
                           sampling of relatively short sequences, which is important for robust optimization of a neural net-
                           work. On the other hand, it forces the RNN to learn to recover meaningful predictions from an
                           atypical initial recurrent state (‘initial recurrent state mismatch’), which may limit its ability to fully
                           rely on its recurrent state and learn to exploit long temporal correlations. The second strategy on
                           the other hand avoids the problem of ﬁnding a suitable initial state, but creates a number of prac-
                           tical, computational, and algorithmic issues due to varying and potentially environment-dependent
                           sequence length, and higher variance of network updates because of the highly correlated nature of
                           states in a trajectory when compared to training on randomly sampled batches of experience tuples.
                           Hausknecht&Stone(2015)observedlittledifferencebetweenthetwostrategiesforempiricalagent
                           performance on a set of Atari games, and therefore opted for the simpler zero start state strategy.
                           Onepossibleexplanationforthisisthatinsomecases,anRNNtendstoconvergetoamore‘typical’
                           state if allowed a certain number of ‘burn-in’ steps, and so recovers from a bad initial recurrent state
                           on a sufﬁciently long sequence. We also hypothesize that while the zero start state strategy may
                           sufﬁce in the mostly fully observable Atari domain, it prevents a recurrent network from learning
                           actual long-term dependencies in more memory-critical domains (e.g. on DMLab).
                           To ﬁx these issues, we propose and evaluate two strategies for training a recurrent neural network
                           from randomly sampled replay sequences, that can be used individually or in combination:
                                                                            3

===== PAGE 4 =====
                                    Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                                                               4Q                                   Initial state
                                     (a)                 Computation of      _                          (b)                                        Final state
                                               ˆ      q(h )  ˆ        q(h   )           ˆ        q(h   )
                                             q(h )       t  q(h  )       t+1          q(ht+m)       t+m
                                                t              t+1
                                     h | 0            ˆ                ˆ                         ˆ
                                      t               ✓               ✓       ···                ˆ
                                                                                                 ✓
                                                                                                 ✓         Q
                                                                                                           4
                                           (h , o ) (h          , o    )          (h       , o     )
                                              t     t      t+1     t+1    ··· t+m t+m
                                               explore obstructed                 explore object                eogl   eorm   ltos   rw        eogl  eorm    ltos   rw
                                     (c)           goals large                    rewards many           lasertag three opponents small        rooms watermaze
                                        n
                                                                                                                 Burn-in Zero-State Stored-State
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                  20
                                        Mean Episode Retur                                                        40
                                             0    1      2    3     4       0     1     2     3      4       0    1     2      3     4       0    1      2     3     4
                                                   # Updates         1e6           # Updates         1e6           # Updates         1e6            # Updates        1e6
                                    Figure 1: Top row shows Q-value discrepancy ∆Q as a measure for recurrent state staleness. (a)
                                    Diagramofhow∆Qiscomputed,withgreenboxindicatingawholesequencesampledfromreplay.
                                    For simplicity, l = 0 (no burn-in). (b) ∆Q measured at ﬁrst state and last state of replay sequences,
                                    for agents training on a selection of DMLab levels (indicated by initials) with different training
                                    strategies. Bars are averages over seeds and through time indicated by bold line on x-axis in bottom
                                    row. (c) Learning curves on the same levels, varying the training strategy, and averaged over 3 seeds.
                                             • Stored state: Storing the recurrent state in replay and using it to initialize the network at
                                                training time. This partially remedies the weakness of the zero start state strategy, however
                                                it may suffer from the effect of ‘representational drift’ leading to ‘recurrent state staleness’,
                                                asthestoredrecurrentstategeneratedbyasufﬁcientlyoldnetworkcoulddiffersigniﬁcantly
                                                from a typical state produced by a more recent version.
                                             • Burn-in: Allow the network a ‘burn-in period’ by using a portion of the replay sequence
                                                only for unrolling the network and producing a start state, and update the network only on
                                                the remaining part of the sequence. We hypothesize that this allows the network to partially
                                                recoverfromapoorstartstate(zero,orstoredbutstale)andﬁnditselfinabetterinitialstate
                                                before being required to produce accurate outputs.
                                    In all our experiments we will be using the proposed agent architecture from Section 2.3 with replay
                                    sequences of length m = 80, with an optional burn-in preﬁx of l = 40 or 20 steps. Our aim is to
                                    assess the negative effects of representational drift and recurrent state staleness on network training
                                    and how they are mitigated by the different training strategies. For that, we will compare the Q-
                                    values produced by the network on sampled replay sequences when unrolled using one of these
                                    strategies and the Q-values produced when using the true stored recurrent states at each step (see
                                    Figure 1a, showing different sources for the hidden state).
                                    More formally, let o ;:::;o                 and h ;:::;h             denote the replay sequence of observations and
                                                                t         t+m           t         t+m
                                    stored recurrent states, and denote by h                    = h(o ;h ;θ) and q(h ;θ) the recurrent state and Q-
                                                                                          t+1            t    t                t
                                    value vector output by the recurrent neural network with parameter vector θ, respectively. We write
                                     ^
                                    h for the hidden state, used during training and initialized under one of the above strategies (either
                                      t
                                     ^              ^                       ^                         ^          ^
                                    h = 0 or h = h ). Then h                        = h(o           ; h        ; θ) is computed by unrolling the network
                                      t               t    ^ t                t+i            t+i−1      t+i−1
                                    with parameters θ on the sequence ot;:::;ot+l+m−1. We estimate the impact of representational
                                    drift and recurrent state staleness by their effect on the Q-value estimates, by measuring Q-value
                                    discrepancy
                                                                                              ^       ^                ^
                                                                                          kq(h      ; θ) − q(h        ; θ)k
                                                                               ∆Q=              t+i               t+i       2
                                                                                                            ^       ^
                                                                                            | max       (q(h      ; θ)) |
                                                                                                    a;j       t+j       a
                                    for the ﬁrst (i = l) and last (i = l + m − 1) states of the non-burn-in part of the replay sequence
                                    (see Figure 1a for an illustration). The normalization by the maximal Q-value helps comparability
                                    between different environments and training stages, as the Q-value range of an agent can vary dras-
                                                                                                      4

===== PAGE 5 =====
                         Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                         tically between these. Note that we are not directly comparing the Q-values produced at acting and
                                                   ˆ ˆ
                         training time, q(h ;θ) and q(h ;θ), as these can naturally be expected to be distinct as the agent
                                         t           t
                         is being trained. Instead we focus on the difference that results from applying the same network
                                          ˆ
                         (parameterized by θ) to the distinct recurrent states.
                         In Figure 1b, we are comparing agents trained with the different strategies on several DMLab en-
                         vironments in terms of this proposed metric. It can be seen that the zero start state heuristic results
                         in a signiﬁcantly more severe effect of recurrent state staleness on the outputs of the network. As
                         hypothesized above, this effect is greatly reduced for the last sequence states compared to the ﬁrst
                         ones, after the RNN has had time to recover from the atypical start state, but the effect of staleness
                         is still substantially worse here for the zero state than the stored state strategy. Another potential
                         downside of the pure zero state heuristic is that it prevents the agent from strongly relying on its
                         recurrent state and exploit long-term temporal dependencies, see Section 5.
                         Weobservethattheburn-instrategyonitsownpartiallymitigatesthestalenessproblemontheinitial
                         part of replayed sequences, while not showing a signiﬁcant effect on the Q-value discrepancy for
                         later sequence states. Empirically, this translates into noticeable performance improvements, as can
                         beseeninFigure1c. Thisitself is noteworthy, as the only difference between the pure zero state and
                         the burn-in strategy lies in the fact that the latter unrolls the network over a preﬁx of states on which
                         the network does not receive updates. In informal experiments (not shown here) we observed that
                         this is not due to the different unroll lengths themselves (i.e., the zero state strategy without burn-in,
                         on sequences of length l + m, performed worse overall). We hypothesize that the beneﬁcial effect
                         of burn-in lies in the fact that it prevents ‘destructive updates’ to the RNN parameters resulting from
                         highly inaccurate initial outputs on the ﬁrst few time steps after a zero state initialization.
                         The stored state strategy, on the other hand, proves to be overall much more effective at mitigating
                         state staleness in terms of the Q-value discrepancy, which also leads to clearer and more consistent
                         improvements in empirical performance. Finally, the combination of both methods consistently
                         yields the smallest discrepancy on the last sequence states and the most robust performance gains.
                         We conclude the section with the observation that both stored state and burn-in strategy provide
                         substantial advantages over the naive zero state training strategy, in terms of (indirect) measures of
                         the effect of representation drift and recurrent state staleness, and empirical performance. Since they
                         combinebeneﬁcially, we use both of these strategies (with burn-in length of l = 40) in the empirical
                         evaluationofourproposedagentinSection4. Additionalresultsontheeffectsofdistributedtraining
                         onrepresentation drift and Q-value discrepancy are given in the Appendix.
                         4   EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
                         In this section we evaluate the empirical performance of R2D2 on two challenging benchmark suites
                         for deep reinforcement learning: Atari-57 (Bellemare et al., 2013) and DMLab-30 (Beattie et al.,
                         2016). OneofthefundamentalcontributionsofDeepQ-Networks(DQN)(Mnihetal.,2015)wasto
                         set as standard practice the use of a single network architecture and set of hyper-parameters across
                         the entire suite of 57 Atari games. Unfortunately, expanding past Atari this standard has not been
                         maintained and, to the best of our knowledge, at present there is no algorithm applied to both Atari-
                         57andDMLab-30underthisstandard. Inparticular, we will compare performance with Ape-X and
                         IMPALAforwhichhyper-parametersaretunedseparately for each benchmark.
                         ForR2D2,weuseasingleneuralnetworkarchitectureandasinglesetofhyper-parametersacrossall
                         experiments. This demonstrates greater robustness and generality than has been previously observed
                         in deep RL. It is also in pursuit of this generality, that we decided to disable the (Atari-speciﬁc)
                         heuristic of treating life losses as episode ends, and did not apply reward clipping. Despite this,
                         weobserve state-of-the-art performance in both Atari and DMLab, validating the intuitions derived
                         from our empirical study. A more detailed ablation study of the effects of these modiﬁcations is
                         presented in the Appendix.
                         4.1  ATARI-57
                         The Atari-57 benchmark is built upon the Arcade Learning Environment (ALE) (Bellemare et al.,
                         2013), and consists of 57 classic Atari 2600 video games. Initial human-level performance was
                                                                    5

===== PAGE 6 =====
                         Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                                                 Asteroids           Bowling             Gravitar
                                                                                                              R2D2
                                                                                                              Ape-X
                                                                 MsPacman           Private Eye         SeaQuest
                         Figure 2: Atari-57 results. Left: median human-normalized scores and training times of various
                         agent architectures. Diagram reproduced and extended from (Horgan et al., 2018). Right: Example
                         individual learning curves of R2D2, averaged over 3 seeds, and Ape-X, single seed.
                         achievedbyDQN(Mnihetal.,2015),andsincethenRLagentshaveimprovedsigniﬁcantlythrough
                         both algorithmic and architectural advances. Currently, state of the art for a single actor is achieved
                         by the recent distributional reinforcement learning algorithms IQN (Dabney et al., 2018) and Rain-
                         bow(Hessel et al., 2018a), and for multi-actor results, Ape-X (Horgan et al., 2018).
                         Figure 2 (left) shows the median human-normalized scores across all games for R2D2 and related
                         methods (see Appendix for full Atari-57 scores and learning curves). R2D2 achieves an order of
                         magnitude higher performance than all single-actor agents and quadruples the previous state-of-
                         the-art performance of Ape-X using fewer actors (256 instead of 360), resulting in higher sample-
                         and time-efﬁciency. Table 1 lists mean and median human-normalized scores for R2D2 and other
                         algorithms, highlighting these improvements.
                         In addition to achieving state-of-the-art results on the entire task suite, R2D2 also achieves the
                         highest ever reported agent scores on a large fraction of the individual Atari games, in many cases
                         ‘solving’ the respective games by achieving the highest attainable score. In Figure 2 (right) we
                         highlight some of these individual learning curves of R2D2. As an example, notice the performance
                         on MS.PACMAN is even greater than that of the agent reported in (van Seijen et al., 2017), which
                         wasengineeredspeciﬁcallyforthisgame. Furthermore,wenoticethatApe-Xachievessuper-human
                         performance for the same number of games as Rainbow (49), and that its improvements came from
                         improving already strong scores. R2D2 on the other hand is super-human on 52 out of 57 games.
                         Ofthoseremaining, weanecdotally observed that three (SKIING, SOLARIS, and PRIVATE EYE) can
                         reach super-human performance with higher discount rates and faster target network updates. The
                         other two (MONTEZUMA’S REVENGE and PITFALL) are known hard exploration problems, and
                         solving these with a general-purpose algorithm will likely require new algorithmic insights.
                         4.2   DMLAB-30
                         DMLab-30is a suite of 30 problems set in a 3D ﬁrst-person game engine, testing for a wide range
                         of different challenges (Beattie et al., 2016). While Atari can largely be approached with only
                         frame-stacking, DMLab-30 requires long-term memory to achieve reasonable performance. Per-
                         haps because of this, and the difﬁculty of integrating recurrent state with experience replay, top-
                         performing agents have, to date, always come in the form of actor-critic algorithms trained in (near)
                         on-policy settings. For the ﬁrst time we show state-of-the-art performance on DMLab-30 using a
                         value-function-based agent. We stress that, different from the state-of-the-art IMPALA architecture
                         (Espeholt et al., 2018), the R2D2 agent uses the same set of hyper-parameters here as on Atari.
                         Here we are mainly interested in comparing to the IMPALA ‘experts’, not to its multi-task variant.
                         Since the original IMPALA experts were trained on a smaller amount of data (approximately 333M
                                                                      6

===== PAGE 7 =====
                                    Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                                                                                    n         rooms watermaze             lasertag three opponents large
                                       e
                                                                                                    Mean Episode Retur
                                                                                                    n    explore object rewards many      language select located object
                                                                          R2D2
                                                                          R2D2+
                                       Mean Capped Normalized Scor        IMPALA
                                                                          IMPALA (Deep)
                                                                          IMPALA (Original)         Mean Episode Retur
                                                           # Environment Frames                              # Environment Frames              # Environment Frames
                                    Figure 3: DMLab-30 comparison of R2D2 and R2D2+ with our re-run of IMPALA shallow and
                                    deep in terms of mean-capped human-normalized score (Espeholt et al., 2018).
                                                                                                       Atari-57                          DMLab-30
                                           Human-NormalizedScore                               Median            Mean          Median         Mean-Capped
                                           Ape-X(Horganetal.,2018)                             434.1%          1695.6%              –                  –
                                           Reactor (Gruslys et al., 2018)                      187.0%               –               –                  –
                                           IMPALA,deep(Espeholtetal.,2018)                     191.8%           957.6%          49.0%               45.8%
                                           IMPALA,shallow(re-run)                                   –               –           89.7%               73.6%
                                           IMPALA,deep(re-run)                                      –               –          107.5%               85.1%
                                           R2D2+                                                    –               –           99.5%               85.7%
                                           R2D2,feed-forward                                   589.2%          1974.4%              –                  –
                                           R2D2                                               1920.6%          4024.9%          96.9%               78.3%
                                    Table 1: Comparison of Atari-57 and DMLab-30 results. R2D2 average ﬁnal score over 3 seeds (1
                                    seed for feed-forward variant), IMPALA ﬁnal score over 1 seed, Ape-X best training score with 1
                                    seed. Ourre-runofIMPALAusesthesameimprovedactionsetfrom(Hesseletal.,2018b)asR2D2,
                                    and is trained for a comparable number of environment frames (10B frames; the original IMPALA
                                    experts in (Espeholt et al., 2018) were only trained for approximately 333M frames). R2D2+ refers
                                    to the adapted R2D2variantmatchingdeepIMPALA’s15-layerResNetarchitectureandasymmetric
                                    reward clipping, as well as using a shorter target update period of 400.
                                    environment frames) and since R2D2 uses the improved action set introduced in (Hessel et al.,
                                    2018b), we decided to re-run the IMPALA agent with improved action set and for a comparable
                                    training time (10B environment frames) for a fairer comparison, resulting in substantially improved
                                    scores for the IMPALA agent compared to the original in (Espeholt et al., 2018), see Table 1.
                                    Figure 3 compares R2D2 with IMPALA. We note that R2D2 exceeds the performance of the (shal-
                                    low) IMPALAversion, despite using the exact same set of hyper-parameters and architecture as the
                                    variant trained on Atari, and in particular not using the ‘optimistic asymmetric reward clipping’ used
                                                                   1
                                    byall IMPALAagents .
                                    Todemonstratethepotentialofouragent,wealsodeviseasomewhatadaptedR2D2versionforDM-
                                    Labonly(R2D2+)byaddingasymmetricrewardclipping,usingthe15-layerResNetfromIMPALA
                                    (deep), and reducing the target update frequency from 2500 to 400 for better sample efﬁciency. To
                                    ﬁt the larger model in GPU memory, we reduced the batch size from 64 to 32 in these runs only.
                                    Weobserve that this modiﬁed version yields further substantial improvements over standard R2D2
                                    and matches deep IMPALA in terms of sample efﬁciency as well as asymptotic performance. Both
                                    our re-run of deep IMPALA and R2D2+ are setting new state-of-the-art scores on the DMLab-30
                                    benchmark.
                                         1This domain-speciﬁc heuristic aids exploration on a certain subset of the DMLab-30 levels.
                                                                                                      7

===== PAGE 8 =====
                              Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                      Breakout              Gravitar             MsPacman               QBert               SeaQuest
                                         R2D2
                                         Clipped
                                         Discount
                                         Feed-Forward
                              Figure 4: Ablations with reward clipping instead of value function rescaling (Clipped), smaller
                              discount factor of γ = 0.99 (Discount), and feed-forward (Feed-Forward) variants of R2D2.
                                            25000  Mean Episode Reward   100 % Greedy Action Match  20           ∆Q
                                            20000                        80                         16
                                            15000                        60                         12
                                            10000                        40                          8
                                             5000   Zero State           20                          4
                                           ms_pacmanStored State
                                               0                          0                          0
                                                ∞   120   80    40    0   120     80      40      0  120      80     40      0
                                                           k                          k                           k
                                              40                         100                        0.8
                                              35                         80
                                              30                                                    0.6
                                              25                         60
                                              20                                                    0.4
                                              15                         40
                                              10                         20                         0.2
                                               5
                                               0                          0                          0
                                             emstm_watermaze∞1208040  0   120     80      40      0  120      80     40      0
                                                           k                          k                           k
                              Figure 5: Effect of restricting R2D2’s policy’s memory on MS.PACMAN and EMSTM WATERMAZE.
                              5    ANALYSIS OF AGENT PERFORMANCE
                              Atari-57 is a class of environments which are almost fully observable (given 4-frame-stack obser-
                              vations), and agents trained on it are not necessarily expected to strongly beneﬁt from a memory-
                              augmented representation. The main algorithmic difference between R2D2 and its predecessor,
                              Ape-X,is the use of a recurrent neural network, and it is therefore surprising by how large a margin
                              R2D2 surpasses the previous state of the art on Atari. In this section we analyze the role of the
                              LSTMnetworkandotheralgorithmicchoices for the high performance of the R2D2 agent.
                              Since the performance of asynchronous or distributed RL agents can depend on subtle implementa-
                              tional details and even factors such as precise hardware setup, it is impractical to perform a direct
                              comparison to the Ape-X agent as reported in (Horgan et al., 2018). Instead, here we verify that the
                              LSTMandits training strategy play a crucial role for the success of R2D2 by a comparison of the
                              R2D2agent with a purely feed-forward variant, all other parameters held ﬁxed. Similarly, we con-
                              sider the performance of R2D2 using reward clipping without value rescaling (Clipped) and using a
                              smaller discount factor of γ = 0.99 (Discount). The ablation results in Figure 4 show very clearly
                              that the LSTM component is crucial for boosting the agent’s peak performance as well as learning
                              speed, explaining much of the performance difference to Ape-X. Other design choices have more
                              mixedeffects, improving in some games and hurting performance in others. Full ablation results (in
                              particular, an ablation over the full Atari-57 suite of the feed-forward agent variant, as well as an
                              ablation of the use of the life-loss-as-episode-termination heuristic) are presented in the Appendix.
                              In our next experiment we test to what extent the R2D2 agent relies on its memory, and how this
                              is impacted by the different training strategies. For this we select the Atari game MS.PACMAN, on
                              which R2D2 shows state-of-the-art performance despite the game being virtually fully observable,
                              and the DMLab task EMSTM WATERMAZE, which strongly requires the use of memory. We train
                              two agents on each game, using the zero and stored state strategies, respectively. We then evaluate
                              these agents by restricting their policy to a ﬁxed history length: at time step t, their policy uses an
                              LSTMunrolledovertimestepso                 , . . . , o , with the hidden state h  replaced by zero instead
                                                                  t−k+1         t                          t−k
                              of the actual hidden state (note this is only done for evaluation, not at training time of the agents).
                                                                                   8

===== PAGE 9 =====
                   Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                   In Figure 5 (left) we decrease the history length k from ∞ (full history) down to 0 and show the
                   degradation of agent performance (measured as mean score over 10 episodes) as a function of k.
                   Weadditionally show the difference of max-Q-values and the percentage of correct greedy actions
                   (where the unconstrained variant is taken as ground truth).
                   Weobserve that restricting the agent’s memory gradually decreases its performance, indicating its
                   nontrivial use of memoryonbothdomains. Crucially,whiletheagenttrainedwithstoredstateshows
                   higher performance when using the full history, its performance decays much more rapidly than for
                   the agent trained with zero start states. This is evidence that the zero start state strategy, used in past
                   RNN-based agents with replay, limits the agent’s ability to learn to make use of its memory. While
                   this doesn’t necessarily translate into a performance difference (like in MS.PACMAN), it does so
                   wheneverthetask requires an effective use of memory (like EMSTM WATERMAZE). This advantage
                   of the stored state compared to the zero state strategy may explain the large performance difference
                   between R2D2 and its close cousin Reactor (Gruslys et al., 2018), which trains its LSTM policy
                   from replay with the zero state strategy.
                   Finally, the right and middle columns of Figure 5 show a monotonic decrease of the quality of Q-
                   values and the resulting greedy policy as the available history length k is decreased to 0, providing
                   a simple causal link between the constraint and the empirical agent performance.
                   For a qualitative comparison of different behaviours learned by R2D2 and its feed-forward variant,
                   weprovide several agent videos at https://bit.ly/r2d2600.
                   6  CONCLUSIONS
                   Here we take a step back from evaluating performance and discuss our empirical ﬁndings in a
                   broader context. There are two surprising ﬁndings in our results.
                   First, although zero state initialization was often used in previous works (Hausknecht & Stone,
                   2015; Gruslys et al., 2018), we have found that it leads to misestimated action-values, especially
                   in the early states of replayed sequences. Moreover, without burn-in, updates through BPTT to
                   these early time steps with poorly estimated outputs seem to give rise to destructive updates and
                   hinder the network’s ability to recover from sub-optimal initial recurrent states. This suggests that
                   either the context-dependent recurrent state should be stored along with the trajectory in replay, or
                   an initial part of replayed sequences should be reserved for burn-in, to allow the RNN to rely on
                   its recurrent state and exploit long-term temporal dependencies, and the two techniques can also be
                   combinedbeneﬁcially. We have also observed that the underlying problems of representational drift
                   and recurrent state staleness are potentially exacerbated in the distributed setting (see Appendix),
                   highlighting the importance of robustness to these effects through an adequate training strategy of
                   the RNN.
                   Second, we found that the impact of RNN training goes beyond providing the agent with memory.
                   Instead, RNN training also serves a role not previously studied in RL, potentially by enabling better
                   representation learning, and thereby improves performance even on domains that are fully observ-
                   able and do not obviously require memory (cf. BREAKOUT results in the feed-forward ablation).
                   Finally, taking a broader view on our empirical results, we note that scaling up of RL agents through
                   parallelization and distributed training allows them to beneﬁt from huge experience throughput and
                   achieve ever-increasing results over broad simulated task suites such as Atari-57 and DMLab-30.
                   Impressive as these results are in terms of raw performance, they come at the price of high sample
                   complexity, consuming billions of simulated time steps in hours or days of wall-clock time. One
                   widely open avenue for future work lies in improving the sample efﬁciency of these agents, to allow
                   applications to domains that do not easily allow fast simulation at similar scales. Another remaining
                   challenge, very apparent in our results on Atari-57, is exploration: Save for the hardest-exploration
                   games from Atari-57, R2D2 surpasses human-level performance on this task suite signiﬁcantly,
                   essentially ‘solving’ many of the games therein.
                                                    9

===== PAGE 10 =====
                            Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                            ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
                            Wearetremendously grateful to our colleagues at DeepMind and Google for their contributions to
                            this work, as well as to the anonymous reviewers for their feedback. We thank Hado van Hasselt,
                            TomSchaul, and David Silver for feedback on an earlier draft of the paper. We thank Toby Pohlen,
                            Bilal Piot, Tom Stepleton, and Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar for helpful conversations and advice
                            during development and writing.
                            WewanttothankJohnAslanidesformanyengineeringcontributionstotheunderlyingagentinfras-
                            tructure, and Gabriel Barth-Maron, Manuel Kroiss, David Budden, Jackie Kay, Matt Hoffman for
                            library and training infrastructure support.
                            SeanSilvaprovidedanincrediblycomprehensiveanalysisofourinitialsubmissionresultsthatmade
                            several novel observations about the beneﬁts of memory in Atari. Finally, for generously providing
                            raw data of previous agents, we wish to thank Hubert Soyer, Dan Horgan, Matteo Hessel, Simon
                            Schmitt, Lasse Espeholt, and Audrunas Gruslys.
                            REFERENCES
                                                                                                                            ¨
                            Charles Beattie, Joel Z Leibo, Denis Teplyashin, Tom Ward, Marcus Wainwright, Heinrich Kuttler,
                                                                  ´          ´
                               AndrewLefrancq,SimonGreen,VıctorValdes,AmirSadik,etal. DeepMindLab. arXivpreprint
                               arXiv:1612.03801, 2016.
                            Marc G Bellemare, Yavar Naddaf, Joel Veness, and Michael Bowling. The Arcade Learning Envi-
                               ronment: an evaluation platform for general agents. Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research,
                               47:253–279, 2013.
                            Will Dabney, Georg Ostrovski, David Silver, and Remi Munos. Implicit quantile networks for dis-
                               tributional reinforcement learning. In Jennifer Dy and Andreas Krause (eds.), Proceedings of
                               the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 80 of Proceedings of Machine
                               Learning Research, pp. 1096–1105, Stockholmsmssan, Stockholm Sweden, 10–15 Jul 2018.
                               PMLR.
                            Lasse Espeholt, Hubert Soyer, Remi Munos, Karen Simonyan, Volodymir Mnih, Tom Ward, Yotam
                               Doron, Vlad Firoiu, Tim Harley, Iain Dunning, et al. Impala: Scalable distributed deep-rl with
                               importance weighted actor-learner architectures. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.01561, 2018.
                            Audrunas Gruslys, Will Dabney, Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, Bilal Piot, Marc Bellemare, and
                               Remi Munos. The reactor: A fast and sample-efﬁcient actor-critic agent for reinforcement
                               learning.  In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2018.          URL https:
                               //openreview.net/forum?id=rkHVZWZAZ.
                            Matthew Hausknecht and Peter Stone. Deep recurrent Q-learning for partially observable MDPs.
                               CoRR,abs/1507.06527, 7(1), 2015.
                            Matteo Hessel, Joseph Modayil, Hado Van Hasselt, Tom Schaul, Georg Ostrovski, Will Dabney,
                               DanHorgan,BilalPiot, MohammadAzar,andDavidSilver. Rainbow: combiningimprovements
                               in deep reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
                               2018a.
                            Matteo Hessel, Hubert Soyer, Lasse Espeholt, Wojciech Czarnecki, Simon Schmitt, and Hado van
                               Hasselt. Multi-task deep reinforcement learning with popart. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.04474,
                               2018b.
                                                    ¨
                            Sepp Hochreiter and Jurgen Schmidhuber. Long short-term memory. Neural computation, 9(8):
                               1735–1780, 1997.
                            Dan Horgan, John Quan, David Budden, Gabriel Barth-Maron, Matteo Hessel, Hado Van Hasselt,
                               and David Silver. Distributed prioritized experience replay. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.00933,
                               2018.
                            Tommi Jaakkola, Satinder P Singh, and Michael I Jordan. Reinforcement learning algorithm for
                               partially observable markov decision problems. In Advances in neural information processing
                               systems, pp. 345–352, 1995.
                                                                              10

===== PAGE 11 =====
           Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
           Max Jaderberg, Wojciech M Czarnecki, Iain Dunning, Luke Marris, Guy Lever, Antonio Garcia
            Castaneda,CharlesBeattie,NeilCRabinowitz,AriSMorcos,AvrahamRuderman,etal. Human-
            level performance in ﬁrst-person multiplayer games with population-based deep reinforcement
            learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.01281, 2018.
           Leslie Pack Kaelbling, Michael L Littman, and Anthony R Cassandra. Planning and acting in
            partially observable stochastic domains. Artiﬁcial intelligence, 101(1-2):99–134, 1998.
           Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint
            arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
           Long-Ji Lin. Reinforcement learning for robots using neural networks. Technical report, Carnegie-
            Mellon Univ Pittsburgh PA School of Computer Science, 1993.
           Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A Rusu, Joel Veness, Marc G Belle-
            mare, Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller, Andreas K Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, et al. Human-level
            control through deep reinforcement learning. Nature, 518(7540):529, 2015.
           Volodymyr Mnih, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Mehdi Mirza, Alex Graves, Timothy Lillicrap, Tim
            Harley, David Silver, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement
            learning. In International conference on machine learning, pp. 1928–1937, 2016.
           George E Monahan. State of the arta survey of partially observable markov decision processes:
            theory, models, and algorithms. Management Science, 28(1):1–16, 1982.
           OpenAI. Learning dexterous in-hand manipulation. arXiv preprint: arxiv:1808.00177, 2018a.
           OpenAI. OpenAIFive. https://blog.openai.com/openai-five/,2018b.
           Tobias Pohlen, Bilal Piot, Todd Hester, Mohammad Gheshlaghi, Dan Horgan, David Budden,
            Gabriel Barth-Maron, Hado Van Hasselt, John Quan, Mel Vecerik, Matteo Hessel, Remi Munos,
            andOlivier Pietquin. Observe and look further: Achieving consistent performance on atari. arXiv
            preprint: arxiv:1805.11593, 2018.
           Tom Schaul, John Quan, Ioannis Antonoglou, and David Silver. Prioritized experience replay. In
            Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2016.
           David Silver, Julian Schrittwieser, Karen Simonyan, Ioannis Antonoglou, Aja Huang, Arthur Guez,
            Thomas Hubert, Lucas Baker, Matthew Lai, Adrian Bolton, et al. Mastering the game of go
            without human knowledge. Nature, 550(7676):354, 2017.
           Richard S. Sutton. Learning to predict by the methods of temporal differences. Machine Learning,
            3(1):9–44, 1988.
           Richard S. Sutton and Andrew G. Barto. Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction. MIT Press,
            1998.
           Hado van Hasselt, Arthur Guez, and David Silver. Deep reinforcement learning with double Q-
            learning. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 2016.
           Harm van Seijen, Mehdi Fatemi, Joshua Romoff, Romain Laroche, Tavian Barnes, and Jeffrey
            Tsang. Hybridrewardarchitectureforreinforcementlearning. InAdvancesinNeuralInformation
            Processing Systems, pp. 5392–5402, 2017.
           Ziyu Wang, Tom Schaul, Matteo Hessel, Hado van Hasselt, Marc Lanctot, and Nando de Freitas.
            Dueling network architectures for deep reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the Interna-
            tional Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2016.
           Christopher JCH Watkins and Peter Dayan. Q-learning. Machine Learning, 8(3):279–292, 1992.
           Paul J Werbos. Backpropagation through time: what it does and how to do it. Proceedings of the
            IEEE, 78(10):1550–1560, 1990.
                               11

===== PAGE 12 =====
                              Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                  Parameter lag (256 actors)              Initial state (256 actors)        Final state (256 actors)
                                                                                                               Burn-in Zero-State Stored-State
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                20
                                                                     Q                                          40
                                # Updates                            4
                                      eogl   eorm   ltos    rw             eogl   eorm    ltos    rw         eogl   eorm    ltos    rw
                                  Parameter lag (64 actors)                Initial state (64 actors)        Final state (64 actors)
                                                                     Q
                                # Updates                            4
                                      eogl   eorm   ltos    rw             eogl   eorm    ltos    rw         eogl   eorm    ltos    rw
                              Figure 6: Left: Parameter lag experienced with distributed prioritized replay with (top) 256 and
                              (bottom) 64 actors on four DMLab levels: explore obstructed goals large (eogl), explore object
                              rewards many (eorm), lasertag three opponents small (lots), rooms watermaze (rw). Center: initial-
                              state and Right: ﬁnal-state Q-value discrepancy for the same set of experiments.
                              APPENDIX
                              EFFECT OF DISTRIBUTED RL AGENT TRAINING
                              In this section, we investigate the effects of distributed training of an agent using a recurrent neural
                              network,wherealargenumberofactorsfeedtheirexperienceintoareplaybufferforasinglelearner.
                              Ontheonehand, the distributed setting typically presents a less severe problem of representational
                              drift than the single-actor case, such as the one studied in (Hausknecht & Stone, 2015). This is
                              because in relative terms, the large amount of generated experience is replayed less frequently (on
                              average, an experience sample is replayed less than once in the Ape-X agent, compared to eight
                              times in DQN), and so distributed agent training tends to give rise to a smaller degree of ‘parameter
                              lag’ (the mean age, in parameter updates, of the network parameters used to generate an experience,
                              at the time it is being replayed).
                              Ontheotherhand,thedistributedsetting allows for easy scaling of computational resources accord-
                              ing to hardware or time constraints. An ideal distributed agent should therefore be robust to changes
                              in, e.g., the number of actors, without careful parameter re-tuning. As we have seen in the previous
                              section, RNN training from replay is sensitive to the issue of representational drift, the severity of
                              which can depend on exactly these parameters.
                              To investigate these effects, we train the R2D2 agent with a substantially smaller number of actors.
                              Thishasadirect(inverselyproportional)effectontheparameterlag(seeFigure6(left)). Speciﬁcally,
                              in our experiments, as the number of actors is changed from 256 to 64, the mean parameter lag
                              goes from 1500 to approximately 5500 parameter updates, which in turn impacts the magnitude of
                              representation drift and recurrent state staleness, as measured by ∆Q in Section 3.
                              The right two columns in Figure 6 show an overall increase of the average ∆Q for the smaller
                              number of actors, both for ﬁrst and last states of replayed sequences. This supports the above
                              intuitions and highlights the increased importance of an improved training strategy (compared to the
                              zerostatestrategy)inthedistributedtrainingsetting,ifacertainlevelofempiricalagentperformance
                              is to be maintained across ranges of extrinsic and potentially hardware dependent parameters.
                                                                                  12

===== PAGE 13 =====
                             Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                     Breakout              Gravitar           MsPacman                QBert              SeaQuest
                                         R2D2
                                         Feed-Forward
                                           R2D2
                                           Clipped
                                           R2D2
                                           Discount
                             Figure 7: Ablation results with standard deviations shown by shading (3 seeds). ‘Clipped’ refers to
                             the agent variant using clipped rewards (instead of value function rescaling), ‘discount’ refers to the
                             use of a discount value of 0.99 (instead of 0.997).
                                     Breakout              Gravitar           MsPacman                QBert              SeaQuest
                                        R2D2
                                        Life-Loss (reset)
                                        Life-Loss (roll)
                             Figure 8: Ablation results for the use of life loss as episode termination on Atari, with standard
                             deviations shown by shading (3 seeds). ‘reset’ refers to the agent variant using life losses as full
                             episode terminations (preventing value function bootstrapping across life loss events, as well as
                             resetting the LSTM state), whereas ‘roll’ only prevents value function bootstrapping, but unrolls the
                             LSTMforthedurationofafullepisode (potentially spanning multiple life losses).
                             EXTENDED RESULTS
                             In this section we give additional experimental results supporting our empirical study in the main
                             text. Figure 7 gives a more in-depth view of the ablation results from Figure 4. We see that, with the
                             exception of the feed-forward ablation, there are always games in which the ablated choice performs
                             better. Our choice of architecture and conﬁguration optimizes for overall performance and general
                             (cross-domain) applicability, but for individual games there are different conﬁgurations that would
                             yield improved performance.
                             Additionally, in Figure 8 we compare R2D2 with variants using the life loss signal as episode
                             termination. Both ablation variants interrupt value function bootstrapping past the life loss events,
                             but differ in that one (‘reset’) also resets the LSTM state at these events, whereas the other (‘roll’)
                             only resets the LSTM state at actual episode boundaries, like regular R2D2. Despite the fact that
                             the life loss heuristic is generally helpful to speed up learning in Atari, we did not use it in our main
                             R2D2agentforthesakeofgenerality of the algorithm.
                                                                                 13

===== PAGE 14 =====
                           Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                                               Atari-57 - Human-normalized Median
                                                                 R2D2
                                                                 R2D2, FF
                                                                 Ape-X
                                                                 Rainbow
                                                                 Reactor
                           Figure 9: Comparing sample efﬁciency between state-of-the-art agents on Atari-57. We observe
                           a general trend of increasing ﬁnal performance being negatively correlated with sample efﬁciency,
                           which holds for all four algorithms compared.
                           InFigure9wecomparethesampleefﬁciencyofR2D2withrecentstate-of-the-artagentsonAtari-57
                           in terms of human-normalized median score. As expected, the more distributed agents have worse
                           sample efﬁciency early on, but also much improved long-term performance. This is an interesting
                           correlation on its own, but we add that R2D2 appears to achieve a qualitatively different performance
                           curve than any of the other algorithms.
                           Note that, while Ape-X has a larger number of actors than R2D2 (360 compared to 256), its learner
                           processes approximately 20 batches of size 512 per second, whereas R2D2 performs updates on
                           batches of 64×80observations (batch size × sequence length), at a rate of approximately 5 per sec-
                           ond. This results in a reduced ‘replay ratio’ (effective number of times each experienced observation
                           is being replayed): On average, Ape-X replays each observation approximately 1.3 times, whereas
                           this number is only about 0.8 for R2D2, which explains the initial sample efﬁciency advantage of
                           Ape-X.
                           HYPER-PARAMETERS
                           R2D2 uses the same 3-layer convolutional network as DQN (Mnih et al., 2015), followed by an
                           LSTMwith512hiddenunits, which feeds into the advantage and value heads of a dueling network
                           (Wangetal., 2016), each with a hidden layer of size 512. Additionally, the LSTM receives as input
                           the reward and one-hot action vector from the previous time step. On the four language tasks in the
                           DMLabsuite, we are using the same additional language-LSTM with 64 hidden units as IMPALA
                           (Espeholt et al., 2018).
                                       Numberofactors                                      256
                                Actor parameter update interval                   400environment steps
                                      Sequence length m                80(+preﬁxofl = 40inburn-in experiments)
                                                                         6                 5
                                       Replay buffer size         4×10 observations (10 part-overlapping sequences)
                                       Priority exponent                                    0.9
                                Importance sampling exponent                                0.6
                                          Discount γ                                      0.997
                                        Minibatch size                        64(32forR2D2+onDMLab)
                                          Optimizer                            Adam(Kingma&Ba,2014)
                                                                                               −4         −3
                                      Optimizer settings                     learning rate = 10   , ε = 10
                                Target network update interval                         2500 updates
                                                                                      p                           −3
                                    Value function rescaling         h(x) = sign(x)(    |x| + 1 − 1) + x,  = 10
                           Table 2: Hyper-parameters values used in R2D2. All missing parameters follow the ones in Ape-X
                           (Horgan et al., 2018).
                           As is usual for agent training on Atari since (Mnih et al., 2015), we cap all (training and evalua-
                           tion) episodes at 30 minutes (108,000 environment frames). All reported scores are (undiscounted)
                                                                           14

===== PAGE 15 =====
           Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
           episode returns. For the R2D2 agent we always report ﬁnal scores (as opposed to some of the
           comparison agents that use best score attained during training).
                               15

===== PAGE 16 =====
                              Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                              FULL RESULTS
                                  GAMES                                     IMPALA(S)         IMPALA(D)          R2D2 R2D2+
                                  rooms collect good objects test                     10.0               10.0        9.8         9.9
                                  rooms exploit deferred effects test                 46.0               62.2      39.9        38.1
                                  rooms select nonmatching object                     11.0               39.0        2.3       63.6
                                  rooms watermaze                                     48.4               47.0      45.9        49.0
                                  rooms keys doors puzzle                             43.8               54.6      52.0        46.2
                                  language select described object                   638.0              664.0     445.9       617.6
                                  language select located object                     534.8              731.4     555.4       772.8
                                  language execute random task                       515.2              465.4     363.1       497.4
                                  language answer quantitative question               18.0              362.0     258.0       344.4
                                  lasertag one opponent large                           0.0               0.0        0.0         0.0
                                  lasertag three opponents large                        0.0              32.2      22.9        28.6
                                  lasertag one opponent small                           0.0               0.0        0.0       31.8
                                  lasertag three opponents small                      53.8               57.2      42.8        49.0
                                  natlab ﬁxed large map                               57.0               63.4      48.9        60.6
                                  natlab varying map regrowth                         22.4               34.0      25.7        24.6
                                  natlab varying map randomized                       48.6               47.0      40.8        42.4
                                  skymaze irreversible path hard                      80.0               80.0      84.0        76.0
                                  skymaze irreversible path varied                    80.0              100.0      80.0        76.0
                                  psychlab arbitrary visuomotor mapping               37.0               38.4      34.2        33.1
                                  psychlab continuous recognition                     30.2               28.6      29.4        30.0
                                  psychlab sequential comparison                      30.8               29.6      30.8        30.0
                                  psychlab visual search                              80.0               80.0      79.6        79.9
                                  explore object locations small                     104.0              100.4      82.9        83.7
                                  explore object locations large                      78.8               91.0      52.4        60.6
                                  explore obstructed goals small                     324.0              372.0     357.6       311.9
                                  explore obstructed goals large                     150.0              102.0      63.2        95.5
                                  explore goal locations small                       566.0              482.0     459.6       460.7
                                  explore goal locations large                       386.0              316.0     328.0       174.7
                                  explore object rewards few                          39.0               92.6      76.5        80.7
                                  explore object rewards many                         79.8               89.4      59.7        75.8
                              Table 3: Performance of R2D2 and R2D2+, averaged over 3 seeds, compared to our own single-
                              seed re-run of IMPALA (shallow/deep) with improved action-set and trained on the same amount
                              of data (10B environment frames). Compared to standard R2D2, the R2D2+ variant uses a shorter
                              target network update frequency (400 compared to 2500), as well as the substantially larger 15-layer
                              ResNet and the custom ‘optimistic asymmetric reward clipping’ from (Espeholt et al., 2018).
                                                                                  16

===== PAGE 17 =====
                         Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                           GAMES                HUMAN REACTOR             IMPALA(S/D)       APE-X        R2D2
                           alien                 7127.8       6482.1      1536.0/15962.1    40804.9    229496.9
                           amidar                1719.5        833.0        497.6/1554.8     8659.2     29321.4
                           assault                742.0      11013.5     12086.9/19148.5    24559.4    108197.0
                           asterix               8503.3      36238.5    29692.5/300732.0   313305.0    999153.3
                           asteroids            47388.7       2780.3     3508.1/108590.1   155495.1    357867.7
                           atlantis             29028.1     308257.5   773355.5/849967.5   944497.5   1620764.0
                           bank heist             753.1        988.7       1200.3/1223.2     1716.4     24235.9
                           battle zone          37187.5      61220.0     13015.0/20885.0    98895.0    751880.0
                           beam rider           16926.5       8566.5      8219.9/32463.5    63305.2    188257.4
                           berzerk               2630.4       1641.4        888.3/1852.7    57196.7     53318.7
                           bowling                160.7         75.4            35.7/59.9      17.6       219.5
                           boxing                   12.1        99.4           96.3/100.0     100.0        98.5
                           breakout                 30.5       518.4         640.4/787.3      800.9       837.7
                           centipede            12017.0       3402.8      5528.1/11049.8    12974.0    599140.3
                           chopper command       7387.8      37568.0      5012.0/28255.0   721851.0    986652.0
                           crazy climber        35829.4     194347.0   136211.5/136950.0   320426.0    366690.7
                           defender             18688.9     113127.8    58718.3/185203.0   411943.5    665792.0
                           demon attack          1971.0     100188.5   107264.7/132827.0   133086.4    140002.3
                           double dunk             -16.4        11.4            -0.4/-0.3      12.8        23.7
                           enduro                 860.5       2230.1              0.0/0.0    2177.4      2372.7
                           ﬁshing derby            -38.8        23.2            32.1/44.9      44.4        85.8
                           freeway                  29.6        31.4              0.0/0.0      33.7        32.5
                           frostbite             4334.7       8042.1         269.6/317.8     9328.6    315456.4
                           gopher                2412.5      69135.1      1002.4/66782.3   120500.9    124776.3
                           gravitar              3351.4       1073.8         211.5/359.5     1598.5     15680.7
                           hero                 30826.4      35542.2     33853.2/33730.6    31655.9     39537.1
                           ice hockey                0.9         3.4             -5.3/3.5      33.0        79.3
                           jamesbond              302.8       7869.3         440.0/601.5    21322.5     25354.0
                           kangaroo              3035.0      10484.5         47.0/1632.0     1416.0     14130.7
                           krull                 2665.5       9930.9       9247.6/8147.4    11741.4    218448.1
                           kung fu master       22736.3      59799.5     42259.0/43375.5    97829.5    233413.3
                           montezuma revenge     4753.3       2643.5              0.0/0.0    2500.0      2061.3
                           ms pacman             6951.6       2724.3       6501.7/7342.3    11255.2     42281.7
                           name this game        8049.0       9907.1      6049.6/21537.2    25783.3     58182.7
                           phoenix               7242.6      40092.3    33068.2/210996.5   224491.1    864020.0
                           pitfall               6463.7         -3.5           -11.1/-1.7       -0.6        0.0
                           pong                     14.6        20.7            20.4/21.0      20.9        21.0
                           private eye          69571.3      15177.1            92.4/98.5      49.8      5322.7
                           qbert                13455.0      22956.5    18901.3/351200.1   302391.3    408850.0
                           riverraid            17118.0      16608.3     17401.9/29608.0    63864.4     45632.1
                           road runner           7845.0      71168.0     37505.0/57121.0   222234.5    599246.7
                           robotank                 11.9        68.5             2.3/13.0      73.8       100.4
                           seaquest             42054.7       8425.8       1716.9/1753.2   392952.3    999996.7
                           skiing                -4336.9    -10753.4   -29975.0/-10180.4   -10789.9    -30021.7
                           solaris              12326.7       2165.2       2368.4/2365.0     2892.9      3787.2
                           space invaders        1668.7       2448.6      1726.3/43595.8    54681.0     43223.4
                           star gunner          10250.0      70038.0    69139.0/200625.0   434342.5    717344.0
                           surround                  6.5         6.7             -8.1/7.6       7.1         9.9
                           tennis                   -8.3        23.3             -1.9/0.5      23.9         -0.1
                           time pilot            5229.1      19401.0      6617.5/48481.5    87085.0    445377.3
                           tutankham              167.6        272.6         267.8/292.1      272.6       395.3
                           up n down            11693.2      64354.3   273058.1/332546.8   401884.3    589226.9
                           venture               1187.5       1597.5              0.0/0.0    1773.5      1970.7
                           video pinball        17667.9     469365.8   228642.5/572898.3   546197.4    999383.2
                           wizard of wor         4756.5      13170.5       4203.0/9157.5    46204.0    144362.7
                           yars revenge         54576.9     102759.8     80530.1/84231.1   148594.8    995048.4
                           zaxxon                9173.3      25215.5      1148.5/32935.5    42285.5    224910.7
                         Table 4: Performance of R2D2 (averaged over 3 seeds) compared to Reactor, IMPALA (shallow and deep
                         expert variants), and Ape-X, with 30 random no-op starts. Ape-X uses best score attained during training,
                         whereas all other agents use ﬁnal scores.
                                                                    17

===== PAGE 18 =====
              Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                           R2D2
                                           Ape-X
                                           R2D2 Feed-Forward
              Figure 10: Learning curves on 57 Atari games: R2D2 (3 seeds), Ape-X and R2D2-feed-forward (1
              seed each).
                                     18

===== PAGE 19 =====
                 Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2019
                                                                R2D2+
                                                                R2D2
                                                                IMPALA (Deep)
                                                                IMPALA
                                                                IMPALA (original)
                                              Human-Normalized Scores
                 Figure 11: Per-level breakdown of DMLab-30 performance. Comparison between R2D2 and IM-
                 PALAtrainedforthesamenumberofenvironmentframes. Theshallow-networkanddeep-network
                 versions are overlaid for each algorithm.
                                                19
