                                                     6           Wen. et al.
                                                            We re-examine the design principles of 4D backbones for long-term videos
                                                     andwewouldliketoemphasizetwoimportantproperties:efÏciency(bothspeed-
                                                     wise and memory-wise) and effectiveness. By efÏciency, we mean the backbone
                                                     should be able to effectively model long-term context to understand 4D visual
                                                     data in a more integrated way. P4Transformer is not efÏcient since it needs to
                                                     load a whole point cloud sequence into the memory for per-point feature learning.
                                                     This could easily explode the memory as the sequence becomes longer or input
                                                     scenes become larger-scale. Similar drawbacks also apply to most other 4D back-
                                                     bonesintheliterature.P4Transformerisalsonoteffectiveenoughforaggregating
                                                     long-term context due to the usage of ball-like region features. P4Transformer
                                                     samples equal-sized ball regions in each frame to compute feature tokens and
                                                     applies transformer to a sequence of frames. The geometric meaning of such ran-
                                                     domly sampled balls could hugely vary in dynamic scenes. This makes it hard
                                                     to build long-term associations, which is important for long-term context.
                                                     4       Method
                                                            Todevelop an efÏcient and effective backbone for long-term 4D understand-
                                                     ing, we draw inspirations from the geometry processing community that prim-
                                                     itive planes as some mid-level geometric representations are both compact and
                                                     stable across time, see Figure 3. Using primitive planes to model the long-term
                                                     context not only eases the need to directly deal with the huge number of raw
                                                     points in a 4D sequence but also facilitates long-term feature association. Fur-
                                                     thermore,sinceprimitiveplanesgrouppointswithcoherentgeometricfeatures,it
                                                     builds a natural geometry hierarchy (scene-primitive-point) which could be used
                                                     as a strong inductive bias for powerful yet hard-to-optimize transformer-style
                                                     architectures. We follow this thought and develop our Point Primitive Trans-
                                                     former.
                                                               a) 17 primitives at frame 30              b) 13 primitives at frame 130            c) 20 primitives at frame 230
                                                     Fig.3. An illustration of primitive fitting in a HOI4D [29] video. Despite changing
                                                     view angles and challenging interaction, the primitive fitting remains consistent across
                                                     time.
                                                            Point Primitive Transformer(PPTr) is a two-level hierarchical transformer
                                                     built upon the geometry hierarchy induced by primitive planes as shown in Fig-
