F PRM Details
F.1 Training

We train our PRMs by fine-tuning the MathMix model to predict the probability
of positive, negative, and neutral labels given a solution prefix ending in one of
our labeled steps. We sweep over hyperparameters using a dataset containing
the first ~ 10% of PRM800K. Fine-tuning an LLM from its ordinary language
modeling task to a classification task like this is a large distribution shift, and
we found low learning rates were important to stable PRM training.

All of our PRMs are trained for 2 epochs. On smaller datasets (such as
in phase 1 and the first few generations of phase 2) this improves the final
performance over training for just 1 epoch. Additional epochs, up to some point,
don’t noticeably help or hurt performance. On larger datasets, the benefits of
2 epoch training diminishes, but we continue doing it for consistency.

F.2 Scoring

There are multiple ways of using the PRM to score solutions. In general, we
produce a single solution-level score by performing a reduction over step-level
scores, where the step-level score is the probability that the step’s label is pos-
itive. This involves two specific implementation decisions. First, when deter-
mining a step-level score, we either consider a neutral label to be positive or
negative. Second, when determining a solution-level score, we either use the
minimum or the product over step-level scores as a reduction.

We show results from all four scoring strategies in Table 4. The best. per-
forming strategy is to take the product of step-level scores and to consider the
neutrals as positives, but the difference in performance between all strategies
is minor. Throughout the rest of this work, we consider neutral steps to be
positive, and we define the solution score to be the product of step-level scores.
Using the product instead of the minimum as the reduction does create a slight
bias against solutions with a larger number of steps.

product minimum
neutral = positive 78.2% 77.6%
neutral = negative 77.4% 77.8%

Table 4: Best-of-1860 test performance using the PRM with four different scor-
ing strategies.

20
