v

ahora

276 © Unified Theories of Cognition

stimulus, it does not verify nor label it. But verification is not the
discrimination, to be used as the basis for the choice of action, so
labeling requires another operator, for another ~60 ms. The inten-
tion operator takes the same duration as in SRT. However, if dis-
crimination is located in the comprehension operator, which pro-
duces a discriminating label, then there are in fact two intend
operators, one for each response, only one of which fires. The
motor command cannot now be totally given in advance, so it needs
at least minimal decoding (20 ms for D), but the motor behavior is
the same ~-60 ms as was used in the SRT task. Summing up the
result gives a total of ~380 ms, which is the original ~220 ms of
SRT plus another ~160 ms that represents the additional activity
needed to deal with the complexity of a simple choice. Actual 2CRT
times for humans are ~350 ms, with (as always) substantial
variation.

We now have a second example of using Soar to make rough
predictions of the time it takes for a human to do immediate-
response tasks. Let us consider one more example, to have a suit-
able basis for discussion.

5.6. Stimulus-Response Compatibility (SRC)

Stimulus-response compatibility can be simply illustrated by an
elevator control panel (Figure 5-9). If the up button is located above
the pown button, then calling for the elevator is straightforward. On
the other hand, if the Down button is located above the up button,
then there is some difficulty. People will make more errors in hitting
the button and they will take longer to hit the correct button. up
above pown is compatible with the desired direction of travel;
DOWN Gnd)ur is incompatible. In general, arrangements that are
more incompatible require longer response times and result in more
errors. That seems sensible enough—downright intuitive, as a mat-
ter of fact.

Stimulus-response compatibility is easily shown experimentally.
Figure 5-10 shows a typical experiment (Duncan, 1977). Four but-
tons are located below four lights (Duncan's setup was slightly
different). There are four conditions, each dictating a response with
a different compatibility between stimulus and response. Most
compatible (corresponding) is to press the key directly beneath the
light. Of intermediate incompatibility (opposite) is to press the cor-

