Along the Frontiers =» 505

(Paul Rosenbloom), and CMU (Allen Newell). Each of these three
sites has become the scene of a typical university research project,
with graduate students, post-docs, research associates, and support
staff, and responsibility for its own funding. But with the aid of the
Internet and the telephone, the three groups manage to behave like
a single project in terms of scientific direction and coordination,
under the leadership of the three principal investigators. Circa 1988,
the three project groups comprised perhaps 35 people.

Surrounding this rather well integrated center are a number of
other investigators who are interested in Soar for their own scien-
tific and technical purposes. Some are located geographically at the
three universities, especially at CMU, the site that has been active
for the longest time. But many are at other universities and research
centers, some in the United States and some in Europe. Circa 1988
there were perhaps another 20 people involved from half a dozen
institutions. These investigators have a wide range of interests and
come from a wide range of fields—psychology, social science, en-
gineering, computer science. Their investments in Soar and their
commitment to it varies widely. This total collection of some 50
people forms a scientific community, with email communication
among the members of the community. The central sites provide
the single version of the Soar system that everyone uses, along with
the usual software-system organizational apparatus of versions,
bug reports, bug fixes, and the like. About every eight months
everyone gets together for a two-day Soar Workshop to exchange
results and (most important) to get to know each other face to face.
There are no barriers of entry to the community except the serious
intent to work with Soar and each independent group or individual
works on its own scientific efforts.?> This latter characteristic is
what makes the organization more community-like than consor-
tium-like.

(3) Be synthetic. Incorporate existing local theories. Indeed, in-
corporate other groups’ unified theories! This is another theme I’ve
been returning to throughout the book. It is not necessarily a good
thing for Soar to propose theories that are radically different from
those already floating in the literature. Better to see Soar as an

23, Anyone interested in making contact with this community can write to any of
its members (see the preface for their names and locations) or send email to
soar@ cs.cmu.edu on the Internet.

