Memory, Learning, and Skill = 357

current (OpsS-based) recognition match points to the representa-
tion of a single attribute (digit) with multiple attributes (6, 5, 9, 1,
- » -) being a major expression of the excessive power. It is likely
that such representational power will not be available in an appro-
priately weakened match, in which case this obvious way of storing
a digit sequence would no longer exist. All of these points are
simply signals that the door may not be closed on the possibility
that the central context stack exhibits functional STM limitations.

Some progress may be made in a different direction, however.
An intriguing place to look is the multiplicity of short-term
memories for which there is evidence. This variety was not one of
Crowder’s main complaints, but perhaps it should have been. Not
only are there the classical STM’s of acoustic/articulatory coding,
plus the visual and auditory iconic memories, but good evidence
also exists for a short-term visual memory that is not the visual icon
(Kroll et al., 1970), an articulatory loop involved with vocal re-
hearsal, but not easily identified with classical STM (Baddeley &
Hitch, 1974), motor short-term memory (Schmidt, 1982), and imag-
inal memory (Posner et al., 1979; Kosslyn, 1980). Other kinds of
memories are there as well, though we don’t usually include them,
such as the use of fingers for counting, body orientation, coordina-
tive rhythms, maybe even afterimages. There is evidence for a
veritable zoo of short-term memories—enough to shake the
confidence of a theorist imbued with the parsimony of the classical
STM-LTM picture.

It is intrinsic to the Soar architecture that it can have multiple
short-term memories. To see this, note that the total cognitive sys-
tem for Soar consists of more than the working-memory elements
that are tied to the context stack of central cognition. Working-
memory elements have an independent existence when they are the
products or objects of processing of the perceptual and encoding
processes on the one hand or the decoding and motor processes on
the other. The elements of working memory thus group into a set of
regions or fields, each of which is associated with some characteris-
tic type of processing—perceptual, cognitive, or motor. There
could also be intermediate fields of some sort of elaborated, parsed
structures, created by encoding productions from perceptual work-
ing-memory elements. On the motor side, analogously, there could
be fields of elaborated motor programs or stages of dynamic-system
construction, created by decoding productions from compact motor

\al

~!

