490 = Unified Theories of Cognition

ior (MacLean, 1970), This hypothesis received a mixed reception,
but that is only to be expected. In any event, all these possibilities
attest to the potential of further scientific knowledge of the biolog-
ical band, even of a global character, to guide a unified theory of
cognition.

8.4 The Social Band

There is even less of a definitive nature to say about the social
band—the frontier above. Still, some discussion of this point on the
frontier is imperative. One important measure of success of a uni-
fied theory of cognition will be whether it extends into the social
band and provides an improved base for the study of social psychol-
ogy and other social sciences.

Recall from Chapter 3 that the social band was characterized as
starting roughly around ~~10° sec (~days). That figure is derived
from the length of time humans spend in isolated individual activ-
ity—often hours, rarely a whole day. Asking when the beginnings
of social activity will occur Pushes the time scale down. In our
society, typical significant contained social interactions last about
an hour—a conference, a game, a meal, a lecture. It is not without
warrant that classroom sessions are not set at 10 minutes. In the
structured workplace, where much context is preset and the goals
of an interaction are often quite narrow, the interaction durations
decrease. Market exchanges are often ~10 min (~~5 x 10? sec),
Executive diaries place the rate at which middle-level managers
shift from one task to an independent one at ~10 min (Mintzberg,
1973), though we were all surprised at the rapidity.

The functional characterization of a social level is interaction
among multiple humans."’ A social system, whether a smal! group
or a large formal organization, ceases to act, even approximately,
as a single rational agent. Both the knowledge and the goals are
distributed and cannot be fully brought to bear in any substantial
way on any particular decision. This failure is guaranteed by the
very small communication bandwidth between humans compared
with the large amount of knowledge available in each human's

17. This is not the social considerations engaged in mentally by the isolated but
thinking individual. Such considerations show only that humans operate in a social
context and that both their knowledge and their goais are socially conditioned.

