298 = Unified Theories of Cognition

~60 ms. This is an indirect indication that taking the minimum
motor operator as ~60 ms in the analysis of SRT, CRT, and SRC
may not be too far off the mark. The graph in Figure 5-18 is an
independent way of estimating the motor operator (and there are
many others) that would leave these earlier predictions of reaction
times zero-parameter predictions,

This model can now be applied to all of the Salthouse 29 regu-
larities in Figure 5-1. That takes a tittle doing. Each regularity is an
exercise in theory application—like the problems in the back of a
first-year engineering textbook on mechanics. Figure 5-19 displays
the individual results. The theory explains one-and-a-half para-
metric results, where the actual parametric detail was predicted;
eight quantitative results, where the quantitative number was pre-
dicted; a few qualitative results for those Salthouse regularities that
were only qualitative; and twelve qualitative results. Thus the the-
ory deals with about three-quarters of the phenomena in some way
and is silent on the rest.

The theory produces its results in zero-parameter fashion, since
No constants were estimated from the typing task. Actually, in
many cases the results depend on the skill of the typist and varia-
tions in that skill, which is estimated by typing speed. This is, of
course, a measure on the person but it is one that is obtained inde-
pendently (from a typing test or the person’s self-report). Then the
parameter to be used in the theory, the motor-operator time, is
obtained through Figure 5-18. It remains true that no constants are
estimated from the typing experiments that are explained.

We will not go through all 29 predictions in detail, but we should
look at some of them. Consider the first Prediction (1). We have a
model for 2CRT (Figure 5-8), which yields a response time of 380
ms. This is much slower than the 200 ms interkey interval for a 60
wpm typist, thus producing the correct prediction

(2) We do not yet have a Soar model of reading (though it is
ultimately necessary to obtain one), so reading rates must be taken
as empirical (~250 wpm). However, it is comforting that Soar pre-
dicts that even the maximum rate of typing (~ 145 wpm) is substan-
tially less than the average reading rate.

(3) That skill and comprehension are independent can be seen by
inspection of the algorithm used in the model. Nothing in the al-
gorithm depends in any way on comprehension. Therefore, if any
variance in comprehension exists at all, there will be independence.

