Unified Theories of Cognition » 35

Yes criterion

No criterion

Figure 1-11, Random-walk mechanism for perceptual decisions.

Let me provide one final harbinger, from the work on the way
perceptual decisions are made in the cognitive system, such as
deciding that an expected signal has occurred in the environment,
deciding whether two perceived items are the same, or recognizing
a presented item or scene that has been seen before. This is a
harbinger not because the theory is of wide scope, but because
psychology seems able to attain some agreement on basic types of
mechanisms.

Figure 1-11 gives the central idea, which is quite simple. The

‘evidence for a decision yes or no arrives over time. The decision
mechanism accumulates this evidence bit by bit and moves toward
a criterial state where it will commit to yes or no. The evidence is .
noisy, however; a random walk ensues and the decision drifts first
toward one boundary and then the other, until with enough time the

" decision is made.

There are many variations of this scheme, variously called run
models, random-walk models, sequential sampling models, diffu-
sion models, and counter models (see Ratcliff, 1985, for some ex-
amples). They all have the properties of being fundamentally sto-
chastic evidence-accumulating mechanisms. They ail have a built-
in speed-accuracy trade-off, controlled by setting cutoffs. They all
are able to terminate the process at any time, with a viable decision,
but with decreased probability of ervor the longer they wait. All of
these features are characteristic qualitatively of human immediate
decision making.

Each type of theory seems able to do about equally well in fitting
the quantitative data. Each fits about the same collection of data
and does it quite well. The odd thing is that we cannot yet (circa
1989) extract the core mechanisms in a formal way, but must be
content with the family resemblance indicated by the figure.

The multiple theories of this decision process—almost as many
as there are theorists, as the saying goes—may make this seem like
a typical divergent area of experimental psychology with micro-
models. They might be taken to indicate the nonunified nature of

