Unified Theories of Cognition « 3

another installment of my response to my own earlier commentary.
This is my attempt, at this particular historical moment, to help put
psychological theory together. It is offered in a positive spirit. For
me, it is the same spirit [ had in the twenty-questions paper. But
much has happened in the years since I gave that talk. Then, in-
deed, 1 was half and half. Now, though hardly yet completely con-
tent, [am convinced that psychology has matured to where another
big forward step is possible.

That said, I can now lay out the plan for this introductory chap-
ter. Since there is an entire book in the offing, its task is simply
to describe the enterprise. I will first discuss briefly the nature

' of theories, so we have some kind of common ground. Then [
will move on to what I mean by “‘unified theories of cognition.”
That will lead naturally into whether psychology is ready for uni-
fied theories. Finally, we will come to the task of the book in its
entirety.

1.1. The Nature of Theories

Let's begin by examining some simple examples of theories that are
already part of psychology. Each of these will show us something
about the nature of psychological theory, which will lead us to a
general view sufficient for our purposes.

LAL, Fitts’ Law

Figure 1-1 shows some data that illustrate Fitts’ law (Fitts, 1954). If
a person moves a finger or pointer from one place to another, how
long does it take? It turns out that the time varies as the logarithm of
the ratio of the distance moved (D) to the size of the target region
(S) to which the move must be made. As the figure shows, the data
fit the law (the straight line) fairly well.

Fitts’ law is extremely robust (Keele, 1986). It holds whether the
movement is repeatedly made back and forth, which is the experi-
ment that Fitts did, or a single movement from one place to an-
other. It holds for finger or hand movements or for using a mouse to
point to a CRT display. It holds for moving a leg or a foot, for
guiding a pointer held in the teeth, and even for a person who is
underwater or looking through a microscope and using a micro-
manipulator. Indeed, it is so neat, it is surprising that it doesn’t
show up in every first-year textbook as a paradigm example of a
psychological quantitative law. After alt, psychology doesn't have

