Blentr pee Tatroduchon
ny J 2 « Unitied-theortes-ot Cognitiorr
Shepard—people I believed did the finest experimental work and
thought most deeply about the results. Still, I was concerned about
_ theory. I tried to make that point by noting that what psychologists
mostly did for theory was to go from dichotomy to dichotomy.
They would worry about whether the processing was serial or par-
allel, or whether practice was massed or distributed, and so on.
Theoretical life in psychology seemed just a forever-long sequence
of dichotomies. What's more, there never seemed to be any real
resolution. That wasn't my notion of how psychology would get to
a real theory even in the long term.
' This paper has attained a mild notoriety (Allport, 1975; Baddley,
1978; Fiske, 1986; Johnson-Laird, 1988a; Neisser, 1974; Wickens &
Flach, 1988). Almost everyone who picked up on this paper has
| used it to signify that cognitive psychology was in trouble—to ac-
i centuate the negative message. I certainly wanted to capture the
|

attention of my colleagues, but, as I said in the opening line of that
paper, ‘Lam a man who is half and half—half of me is quite content
and half of me is half concerned.”’ That is only one-quarter negative
at worst.
_ H Thad something more in mind than just to complain. I described
three ways that might move us toward the sort of theory I felt
i psychology needed. First, psychology could construct complete
processing models. Second, it could take particular tasks and ana-
lyze all of the psychological phenomena involved in them. Third, it
could apply a model of a single phenomenon to lots of diverse
| situations where that phenomenon arose. These suggestions were
| all ways of forcing ourselves away from general polar comparisons
, and toward theories that could deal with complex psychological
‘situations.

I went further than just making general methodological sugges-
tions. In the second half of my comments, published as a separate
paper in the proceedings (Newell, 1973b), I laid out production
systems as detailed models of the human contro! structure. Produc-
tion systems had just emerged as an interesting program formalism
for describing human problem-solving behavior (Newell & Simon,
1972, chap. 14). But control structures for detailed chronometric
behavior were unexplored territory. Some theory of control was a
necessary ingredient for detailed theories of cognitive mechanisms,
and one which I took as an important move beyond the game of
“twenty questions.”

The William James Lectures, and this book, can be taken as
