Along the Frontiers = 431

tion by current candidates for unified theories of cognition. Soar
shares this premise fully.

There is no alternative for a unified theory of cognition based on
information processing but to be a theory of the architecture. The
architecture is where the strong organismic invariants are, but it
needs to be emphasized (one last time) that the architecture by itself
does not determine behavior. Indeed, an architecture is precisely a
device for making it possible for something else to determine be-
havior, to wit the knowledge encoded in its memories. Knowledge
is about many different things; the system’s goals, the system's
bodily state, the local task environment, the social environment,
the general nature of the physical world—all these are the burden of
the knowledge level and the symbol level that supports it. How-
ever, it is the shape of the architecture that gives shape to the
psychological regularities at the cognitive level. In agreement with
this view, Soar is an architecture and was presented as one in
Chapter 4.

The hallmark of a unified theory is the range of central cognition
and its surround that it addresses. The number of regularities ad-
dressed is only a surrogate for the coverage provided. Thus, central
to the case to be made for unified theories is that a single theory can
have a broad range. Nothing is more important to illustrate, and
once the architecture was out on the table, the remainder of the
book, from the last of Chapter 4 through Chapter 7, was devoted to
making plausible that a wide range was possible. Throughout this
second half of the book, we have been accumulating a box score of
the domains covered for our exemplar, Soar. Figure 7-19 provides
the latest total. This may seem a little dramatic— or perhaps a little
corny. Box scores don’t belong to science, but to sports and poli-
tics. But some way was needed to emphasize how important cover-
age is. Once we have one or more unified theories, then what will
count is whether a theory covers the particular collection of phe-
nomena that some user of the theory needs. Until then, it is useful
to be crass enough to emphasize sheer numbers-—sheer coverage.

For Soar, what heads the list in Figure 7-19 is the prediction that
humans can be intelligent. Soar's demonstration of this is as good
as the state of the art in AI. Functionality, the explanation of how it
is possible for humans to be intelligent, is a comerstone of a theory
of cognition. Next is the demonstration that Soar exhibits the qual-
itative shape of human cognition, though the particular list of global
