Human Cognitive Architecture « 139

cannot be verified as holding for the general scheme. Furthermore,
no contrasting scheme of controlled processing has been delin-
eated. But our task is not to provide a detailed theory of auto-
matic and controlled processing, or any other specific body of ex-
perimental data. Rather, it is just to ask whether it is plausible that
one should have a system level of elementary deliberations at the
~~100 ms level. This certainly seems to be the case.

3.8. The Level of Simple Operations

Let us now ascend another level. Figure 3-9 actually shows all four
levels of the cognitive band. At the lower left-hand comer is an icon
that stands for the symbol-access level, fashioned after Figure 2-10.
This is the basic architectural level at ~~10 ms. Above it, slightly
to the right, is another icon that stands for the level of elementary
deliberate operations, fashioned after Figure 3-6. This is the ~~100
ms level and the one we have just discussed. The next two levels
move up and to the right. The first is the ~~1 sec level and the
second (in the upper right corner) is the ~~ 10 sec level.

We must now ask where the cognitive band needs to arrive—
namely at a symbol system, which is to say, at the machinery
for composing operations—so it can construct the response func-
tions needed to interact with the environment. The elementary-
deliberation level has produced a system that engages in knowledge
search, but it does not engage in problem search. We need ulti-
mately to build up to systems that engage in problem search with
operators that are composed for the task at hand.

The elementary-deliberation level provides ways of executing
preexisting actions. These operations can be put together into sys-
tems that will clearly work in the order of ~~I sec, and these
systems can compose some response functions. They are doing
deliberations to select what they want to do. Figure 3-9 makes the
activity appear to be a search. As we saw in Chapter 2, there must
be the potential for doing search, because there is the potential for
error. But, except for that, there need be nothing searchlike about
the processing. If the knowledge of the system is good enough,
what can occur is simply an extended computation, such as adding
up a column of numbers or checking off a list of items. The impor-
tant point is that of putting together a collection of deliberate acts in
order to compose some way of responding.
