Unified Theories of Cognition = 37

that the prediction is wrong. Since the aim of scientific endeavor,
according to Popper, is to prove that theories are false, once the
candidate theory is shown to be false it can be dispensed with. The
book can be safely closed and discarded, to await the next candi-
date unified theory, perhaps in some future William James Lec-
tures.

The second risk can be called the augaboos of psychology. We
are actually sensitive, in psychology, about having theories—as if
they are too grand a thing for psychology in its nascent state to
have. Indeed, it was so bad at one time that, in order to avoid
having to talk about having a theory, we talked about pretheoretical

_ orientations (Kendler, 1961). We have perhaps gotten back to
where we can talk about theories. But if someone begins to talk
about unified theories, this sense of modesty can be expected to
return. Unified theories are too grand a conception to entertain.
Psychology needs to wait until—well, until some indefinite future—
before entertaining such a thing.

The next risk is to be found guilty of the sin of presumption. Who
am I, Allen Newell, to propose a unified theory of cognition? We
have never had one of these before (though I have already said that
John Anderson really has one). Psychology must wait for its New-
ton. And we all know that only two people could possibly replace
Newton—they are Archimedes and Einstein, both of whom are
already dead.

Next is the necessity of selection. Developing a unified theory, as
will become apparent, is a synthetic enterprise. It is not an enter-
prise of showing that what psychology has already discovered is
wrong. Rather, it is an attempt to synthesize the existing under-
standing into one unified whole, so we can go forward with the task
of fashioning it into a better whole. Alas, selections must still be
made, because many of the constructs in psychology are genuinely
alternative conceptions, even though there is usually some truth on
both sides.* For instance, if one has productions and semantic nets
but not frames or schemas, then that half of the cognitive psycholo-
gists who think schemas are grand will be convinced that the enter-
prise is really not a synthesis at all, but a competitive device to

3, Richman and Simon (1989) have made the point that the same common mecha-
nisms may explain the same phenomenon even when two theories are as different in
surface form as symbolic and connectionist theories. This point is related to the discus-
sion above of the random-walk models of decision making.

