502 = Unified Theories of Cognition

obvious from my discussion in Chapter 5, I hereby go on record as
being in favor of the ~~3,000 regularities. Many, indeed most, of
these are arcane and not related to application. They gain their
significance only when theory finds them important. We can’t just
attend to all ~~3,000 regularities on the hope that they will have
relevance for the future. Applications have a wisdom that the cur-
rent fashions of theory do not have, and indeed probably should

not.
An area of application provides an external reason for working

with certain kinds of theories and therefore for grounding the theo-
ties. It creates sustained communities that nourish a theory for a
right reason—because it serves them. Interestingly, pure concern
for science doesn’t have that character. The scientist is free to
forget some phenomena and just go on to other phenomena. As
individual scientists, we properly exercise that freedom all the time.
But applications ground our work in the larger motivation for the
application.

Let me draw the lesson for Soar, just to make the point concrete.
lexpect Soar to work for HCI and to be used, so to speak, every
day in every way—at least eventually. I am working to make that
happen, though the published indicators don’t yet mention Soar
(Newell & Card, 1985; John & Newell, 1989). Grant that for the
moment. Now suppose, just for example, that some data from
neuroscience on localization of function turn out to be radically
different from the way Soar apparently is. Some strong disconfirm-
ing evidence shows up. Soar will survive that just fine, as long as
there is a domain for which Soar is being used and for which the
neuroscience data are not particularly relevant. For Soar that area
is HCI applications. It will hold work on Soar in place, until some-
one finally comes up with a theory that takes into account both the
functional neuroanatomy data and the higher-level phenomena
about how humans interact with computers.”? Without such an an-
chor, the discovery of a domain that clearly shows Soar to be wrong
could lead cognitive scientists simply to walk away from Soar. In
short, having domains of applications is extremely important to
having good scientific theories. Unified theories of cognition are no
exception.

2. Of course, if Soar also turns out to be no good for the applications, or less good
than new theories that come along, then it simply fades away, as it should.

