242 = Unified Theories of Cognition

of adjacent letters, baot instead of boat, Such errors occur mostly
when the two characters are typed by fingers of opposite hands.
Once more, it seems apparent why transposition errors have this
propensity, namely, controlling the timing between the two hands is
more difficult than controlling the timing between two fingers of the
same hand, But the architecture still has to permit such an effect to
show through. For instance, if an architecture were to treat each
keystroke as an independently initiated event, the effect would not
occur,

Finally we come to some skill-related regularities. (23) Not only
does the interkeystroke interval decrease with practice (which must
happen for typing speed to increase with practice), but sequential
pairs of keystrokes (digrams) also decrease, and some decrease
faster than others. Interestingly, the digrams that involve two sepa-
rate fingers (whether on the same hand or not) decrease faster than
the digrams that involve onty a single finger (whether the same
letter or not). That is, s¢ (the ring and index finger of the left hand)
improves faster the ft (both index fingers). Who would ever care
about such a regularity? It shows up in Salthouse’s list, I would
hazard, because several investigators looked generally at improve-
ment of sequences of characters (chunks) and the slow rate for one-
finger digrams showed up reliably. But whether it is interesting
from any larger view (could it possibly be relevant to training?), it
can still be interesting as a constraint on the cognitive architecture.

(24) People who are fast typists tap faster. This is an important
correlation that ties typing to other tasks. It is an opposite kind of
regularity to (3), which showed that comprehension and typing skill
were independent. (25) Skill in any complex domain exhibits vari-
ability. In typing, the speed fluctuates over short stretches of text.
As skill increases this variability goes down. That is, the skilled
typist is a steady typist. (26) There is an increase in the eye-hand
span with skill. This is the third regularity on eye-hand span, which
probably reflects the long-standing popularity of studying eye-hand
span in typing. (27) There is an increase of the replacement span
with skill. (28) There is also a moderate increase of the copy span
with skill, Finally (29), the stopping span increases with skill.

There we have the Salthouse 29, It seems like a lot of regularities,
and it was somewhat obsessive to go through the entire list. Even
so, there are some important regularities that did not make the
Salthouse list. I have added a few to the bottom of the figure, as

