Along the Frontiers = 435

issue into the future, until additional regularities and phenomena
accumulate, but the challenge remains.

Contingencies of reinforcement is a term that can be made to
stand for a large and well-established body of regularities that link
human behavior and animal learning behavior. First, speaking
specifically, Soar must explain why (and to what extent} humans
obey the various laws established in operant conditioning about
how the frequency of specific responses can be brought under the
control of specific environmental events. That these regularities
have been developed in an area outside cognitive psychology (and
which mostly predate cognitive psychology) is not relevant to their
status as regularities and to the need for Soar to cover them. Speak-
ing more broadly about the psychology of animal behavior,
unification is certainly required. It is already under way from the
animal-behavior side (Rescorla, 1988), but the integration needs to
be pursued from the human-cognitive side as well,

The areas of concepts and concept learning was originally
defined in terms of categories defined by predicates (Bruner, Good-
now, & Austin, 1956). A person has a concept if he or she can
determine whether the predicate was true of a presented object or
situation. The area was enriched in the 1970s by being extended to
prototypes, where membership was defined by the resemblance of
an object to a central category (Rosch & Lloyd, 1978). Hence, an
object was a better or worse exemplar of a concept. The extension
to prototypes has been taken to imply a fundamental revision of our
views of the nature of mind (Lakoff, 1987). At issue is whether the
mental world of humans is constructed propositionally, hence with
all concepts categorical, or whether in some other way—the same
underlying concern that motivates the study of syllogisms. Soar
must give an account of prototypes and show how they arise when
the situations call for them, just as predicates arise when the situa-
tions call for them. Here is a place where it would occasion surprise
(at least on my part) if additional architectural assumptions were
needed to get these different types of concepts, and others as well.
That a processing device that is designed, so to speak, to provide
the ultimate flexibility in response functions is limited to computing

only predicates would seem passing odd.
Decisions under risk and uncertainty (Pitz & Sachs, 1984) are the

domain of behavioral decision theory, whose central concept is
subjective expected utility (SEU). Given a set of alternatives, indi-

