486 « Unified Theories of Cognition

to the first, Soar is obviously intended to be realizable in neural
technology within the time constraints of Figure 3-9. This does not
seem entirely implausible on the present account. Though wide-
spread, the opinion that symbolic-systems models of cognition are
somehow so serial that they cannot be made to jibe with the brain's
organization and speed of operations is simply misguided. I have
been rather careful in this book to worry about this constraint; an
entire chapter was devoted to it. There are, of course, massively
parallel aspects of Soar. Production systems form a massively par-
allel recognition-memory system. But production systems are no
more parallel than they have always been, even though they also
often seem to be taken as the epitome of symbolic systems and
tule-based behavior. There is more than a little clash here between
what production systems are technically and the role they have
been cast in by the rhetoric of dissent-against symbolic systems.

With respect to the second aspect, the central computations for
Soar’s performance are those of match and recognition, Matching
bears a substantial relation to constraint satisfaction, but it seems
much more specialized. In particular, there are strong structural
constraints about how parts must correspond and what is to happen
upon failure. The current match processes in Soar (derived from
Ops5 assumptions about the power of the match) are computation-
ally suspect, as we discussed at some length in Chapter 5. Thus, a
little caution is in order about predicting what the computational
character of the ultimate Soar match will be like. It does seem
unlikely that the sort of constraint-satisfaction processes empha-
sized in connectionism will be the center of attention.

To be sure, other processes besides match are involved in Soar’s
performance, such as the decision procedure, but they do not seem
to be of much computational moment (complexity-wise). Chunking,
which is the processing specifically associated with learning, is a
fairly homogeneous process, and it is not clear how complex or
extensive it would be in a neural-technology implementation. More
generally, the entire motor system is outside central cognition. Al-
though we were unable to be definitive about the motor system, we
leaned toward composable dynamic systems. This clearly has a
computational character ail its own, which need not have any par-
ticular relation to the recognition system. The processing in the
perceptual system is somewhat more ambiguous. On the present
account, the characteristic computational function to be performed

