148 » Unified Theories of Cognition

slow compared to the 10 sec to read it in regular text, but most of
the deficit would have been made up.

Practice in reading inverted text follows the same Jaw that the
choice-reaction task of Figure 1-2 does—the ubiquitous power law
of practice. The qualitative characteristics sketched out above—
the continual acquisition of experience that allows one to move
along an isobar—are not specific enough to imply this quantitative
law. Many mechanisms might be used to process experience and
make it accessible, and many others for retrieving it and welding it
into current behavior. But it takes only a few additional and very
simple assumptions to obtain the power law, which were presented
in Chapter 1. The ubiquity of the power law in human behavior
might be taken as an additional indication of plausibility for this
story of how it is that full cognitive behavior takes ~~10 sec (and
up) and yet cognitive behavior is evident at ~~1 sec. Such a mech-
anism would dissolve whatever seemed anomalous in full cognitive
behavior exceeding the ~~1 sec limit.

The argument made in this chapter is qualitative and does not say
how far down such a mechanism could drive the time to respond.
Figure 3-9 indicates why it is unlikely to extend down to the ~~ 100
ms level. The neural technology is fixed, or subject to only modest
compression, and there is simply too much to do to obtain such a
major compression. Empirically, we know that simple reaction
times wi O as [50 ms.
But it is not just learning from experience that accomplishes that,
but simplification, preparation, and carefully shaped anticipation all
along the line.

A second plausible feature of this general arrangement is its con-
sonance with the fast-read, slow-write characteristic often noted of
human memory. Humans read out information from their long-term
memory very rapidly, well under 100 ms. Figure 3-9 puts it at ~~10
ms. On the other hand all attempts to measure how fast humans
write new information into long-term memory show it to be much
slower—of the order of a few seconds for a chunk (Simon, 1975;
Gilmartin, Newell, & Simon, 1976). These are measurements taken
after minutes or hours, not after seconds—people remember a good
deat about a situation immediately afterwards. Likewise, these are
measurements of what new information is acquired, and it is neces-
sary to separate out what was really novel in the situation versus

{what could be plausibly reconstructed. The measurements are of

