274 « Unified Theories of Cognition

wise, attend occurs prior to stimulus occurrence, when the fixation
point is presented. So 0 ms is required for A. A single comprehen-
sion operator (C) is required, but it will be minimal (~60 ms) be-
cause everything is defined in terms of an expected sequence and
that expected sequence occurs. The task is prepared in advance,
hence 0 ms for T. There is an intend operator (1), which can execute
as soon as C labels the stimulus object as the correct one. All it has
to do is lay in the command, so it is also a minimal operator (60 ms).
The motor movement itself is a simple highly practiced action.
Thus, no decoding of the command by D-productions is required
(0 ms for D). Finally, Mf is ~60 ms, which is the duration of a
minimal motor action. Adding up the column gives ~220 ms for the
total time of a simple reaction time task.

What has been done in getting to the result of Figure 5-7? We
started with Soar and the mapping of it into the time scale of human
cognition (Figure 4-23). We then produced an analysis of its behav-
ior in extremely simple situations, which permitted us to come up
with an a priori rough estimate of human simple reaction time. The
actual times are ~200 ms, although there is lots of variability, both
from trial to trial and depending on aspects of the stimulus situa-
tion, such as modality, intensity, and immediate prior task (Luce,
1986). Thus, we see that Soar is to be used not only as a theory for
problem solving but as a detailed model of microcognition. Many
questions are raised by the particular style of analysis and approxi-
mation used here, but let us delay these questions until we consider
some more examples.

5.5. The Two-Choice Response Task (2CRT)

Figure 5-8 shows a two-choice reaction-time task (2CRT): Press the
button under whichever light goes on. Again, we assume adequate
preparation, the location of both lights within foveal vision, and so
on. This situation is just barely more complex than the SRT task.
Let us go through the accounting.

Perception still takes the minimum time; both stimulus represen-
tations of the two lights occur concurrently. Now, a distinguishing
feature has to be noted about these two stimuli. The standard 2CRT
experiment is designed so that a highly available feature is made
highly salient, one light being turned on (with the other left off).
This feature is detected and noted by an E-production. At minimum

