Along the Frontiers = 437

control, then sequences of minimal operators will be required, anal-
ogous to the SRC situations discussed in Chapter 5. But more is
specified by the random-walk models. The accumulation is to be
additive and the comparisons against the cutoffs are to be quantita-
tive inequalities. Thus, this domain requires that we augment the
Soar architecture to deal with primitive quantities. This canbe
called the problem of the basic quantitative code. It is easy to show
that an architectural mechanism is required, since the issue is the
transduction from perceptual signals, which are clearly quantitative
(intensity, direction), to symbols in Soar’s representation, and from
such symbols to motor signals, which are again clearly quantitative
{force, direction). This transduction must not only be built in, it
must lead to a representation (code) that is built in. Coming to grips
with these phenomena of perceptual decisions will force a signifi-
cant addition to the Soar architecture. It will also move Soar into an
issue that psychophysics should have dealt with long ago but man-
aged mostly to avoid, namely, what are the internal representations
of subjective magnitudes. Psychophysics simply assumes that peo-
ple are able to represent subjective magnitude (such as brightness
or degree of pain). For many purposes, this is all that seems neces-
sary—one can characterize the psychophysical function without
knowing the representation and one can even calculate it by work-
ing with the scientist's external representation of quantities, in
radix and floating point. But much that is important about psycho-
physics may derive from the actual representation used by humans.

Priming provides a basic experimental paradigm for the concept
of activation (Anderson, 1984). Currently, activation is taken al-
most entirely for granted in cognitive psychology and is used almost
as a descriptive term for broad classes of phenomena. Soar does not
have activation as a fundamental construct and undoubtedly this is
one of the things that will make Soar unattractive as a theory to
many cognitive scientists. Soar should not necessarily provide a
construct analogous to activation, but it should be made to explain
the priming experiments. Its success would provide strong indica-
tions of how the concept of activation is to be dealt with generally.
Its failure would open up an important dissonance that could point
to how the Soar architecture might be genuinely inadequate.

It is tempting at least to ask of Soar where its treatment of prim-
ing might naturally arise. The basic priming experiment (Meyer &
Schvaneveldt, 1971) presents to a subject a sequence of indepen-
