488 = Unitied Theories of Cognition

assure that. On the other hand, Soar has put off to its future agenda
dealing with the continuous and quantitative nature of human cog-
nition (the third human cognitive power that appeals to connection-
ists). The temporal grain of the Soar system, with recognitions
occurring at ~~10 ms, is fine enough that it is unclear whether the
behavioral continuity has tdbe lodged in the medium (although it is
clear that at some level neural circuits are continuous). The basic
representation of quantities is an important lacuna in Soar, which
needs to be filled.

The temporal mapping induced by the real-time constraint has an
interesting implication for the concept of a subsymbolic level,
which has emerged in connectionism as a general way of describ-
ing a possible relation of symbol processing and neural nets
(Smolensky, 1988). The root idea is that there exists a distinct
neural-system level, which accomplishes certain functions nor-
mally assigned to symbolic computation. Prominent among these
are recognition, immediate response, and learning (the functions
that have received most attention in connectionist investigations).
This level then implements'® an approximation to symbolic process-
ing as a higher system level, which will accomplish other cognitive
functions, such as deliberate planning, problem solving, extended
sequential rule following, and the like.

The temporal mapping implies there can't be any subsymbolic _
level—there isn't enough temporal space. The symbolic memory
access is already at the ~~10 ms level, according to this mapping.
There is no way that any substantial level could get in between this
and the neural level. The real-time constraint on cognition turns out
to make impossible a view of the world that posits a neural-circuit
(subsymbolic) level that accomplishes lots of functions and then has
a symbol level on top of it. However, it would be possible (attend-
ing to just this constraint) to posit that behavior up to ~~100 ms is a
connectionist system, and that it produces a higher-level organiza-
tion above it (~~1 sec and up). According to the mapping, this
would have the connectionist system performing all the basic sym-
bolic functions up to and including basic deliberate decision mak-
ing (or whatever analogue to them is posited in the connectionist
system).

16. A variant view takes the symbolic level as simply a weak approximation, which
does not have any strong closure properties as a systems level.

