272 © Unified Theories of Cognition

involved, with independent data sets, the constants may be taken as
having been amortized broadly over many data points.

These constants are at least plausible. Consider the central pro-
cessing constants—the decision procedure at ~10 ms, productions
at ~20 ms, and minimal operators at ~60 ms. The decision proce-
dure and the production cycle are toward the lower end of the
~~ 10 ms range we have been using all along. The minimal operator
is far below the general ranges we have specified, ~~100 ms fora
decision cycle and ~~ 1 sec for a simple operator, but this is just the
result of seeking the absolute minimum. Normally, many produc-
tions would fire within a decision cycle, since the situation is open
to any production at all, whether or not relevant to the task. One
feature of immediate-response tasks is the removal of extraneous
firings. In addition, multiple preferences would be expected to in-
crease the decision processing. On the empirical side, Card, Moran,
and Newell (1983), after considering diverse experimental results
and analyses, adopted a characteristic value of ~70 ms for the
cognitive processor cycle (t,) of the Model Human Processor, with
a range of ~25 to ~170 ms (see Figure 1-9 in this book). They
deliberately avoided decomposing the central processing of these
. tasks in any uniform way, taking at face value the conceptual units
of the original studies (which explains the large total range). Thus,
these values mostly, but not uniformly, reflect activity a level above
the production cycle and decide time. Thus, the decision-procedure
and production-cycle durations should be a modest submultiple of
~70 ms, say between ~10 and ~40 ms. On the other hand, the
minimal-operator duration of ~60 ms seems quite consonant with
the ~70 ms central cycle.

The perceptual-module time of ~40 ms can be compared with the
Model Human Processor value for the perceptual processor of
~100 ms with a range of 50 to 200 ms. The perceptual processor
covers both P and E, so we would expect P to be down toward the
lower end of the range, namely ~50 ms. For perception it is possi-
ble to find confirmation in physiological measurements, something
not possible for central cognition. For instance, measuring evoked
potentials as they come up the stations of the auditory nerve yields
times of ~20 ms before the cortex is reached. Similarly, measuring
the stations of the optic nerve yields similar times before the visual
cortex is reached. The basic duration of P should be slightly longer
than this.

The motor-module time of ~60 ms can be compared with the

