Memory, Learning, and Skill « 323

Study trial
BOOK 13
HOUSE 45
BRICK 84
GLOVE 12
Test trial
at HOUSE ?
st? HORSECEOORS =?

Figure 6-7. Paired-associates verbal-learning paradigm.

tials—tetters, numbers, words, phrases, and sentences—to con-
duct experiments in which people deliberately learn various lists of
items and then demonstrate that learning at a later time by carrying
out various tasks that depend upon it. This is the world of Ebbing-
haus’ nonsense syllable and the origin of many familiar experimen-
tal paradigms—item recognition, serial recail, paired associates,
free recall, cued recall, and so on.

Figure 6-7 shows an example of a paired-associates task. The
tasks starts with a study trial, in which a sequence of pairs is pre-
sented to the person: book—13, house—45, .. . This is followed by
a test trial, in which the person is presented the words that occurred
earlier and anes 4 state the associated number: house—? (the
person says 40), hor$—? (the person says I7), Boo —? (the person
says 3), and so on. The pairs are presented in random order.

As Tulving (1969) made abundantly clear, the memory involved
in learning verbal material is special. It is learning what occurred in
a particular episode, Thus, having learned in one session the paired
associates as in Figure 6-7, in the next session the person might be
asked to learn book--45, house~13 .. . just the opposite from the
first session. What is being learned is not that book and some num-
ber, say 45, belong together, but that they belong together on a
particular occasion. This situation seems to contrast sharply with
learning that 2 + 2 = 4 or that canaries have wings. These are
permanent facts independent of the occasion for learning them, and
they belong in a memory called semantic memory, in accord with
the name being used at the time for studies of memory and knowl-
edge organization in AI (Quillian, 1968; Collins & Quiilian, 1969). In
fact, it was the emergence of the work in semantic memory that

jn

