72 « Unified Theories of Cognition

science has resulted in a variegated set of definitions of this most
general class of machines. That these all lead to the same class of

' functions, the computable functions, has seemed remarkable. It has

become known as the Church-Turing thesis. It remains a thesis,
rather than a theorem, on the grounds that it asserts something
about the informal process of characterizing classes of machines.
One can only prove theorems about what has been formalized. The
only thing that keeps the Church-Turing thesis from becoming a
theorem, however, seems to be a reluctance to settle the essential
properties of what it means to be a physically realizable machine.

We have taken a rather long excursion to trace the story of uni-
versal computation. That is because computer science has a lot to
tell us about this topic, and it is important because of the role that
obtaining flexible response functions plays in mind-like behavior
(recall Figure 1-7). We need to understand what sort of mechanisms
are possible that can produce extreme flexibility. Universal com-
puters provide the absolute maximum flexibility possible in physi-
cally realizable systems.

2.5. Symbols

Throughout the entire discussion of representation and computa-
tion, symbols have never once been mentioned. This could be taken
as just a choice of terms. Symbolic could be defined to be essen-
tially synonymous with representational. Anything that represents
exhibits symbolic function. I choose not to do this, because this
usage obscures an important issue that is closely bound up with
what are normally called symbols, which are things that occur in

: expressions or other media. Symbols are certainly used to repre-

sent, as when ‘‘cat’’ in ‘*The cat is on the mat’’ is used to represent

‘ a specific cat. But there is more going on than just that.

Let us focus initially on symbol tokens, rather than on symbols,

, the fatter being abstract equivalence classes of tokens. Tokens oc-

cur as parts of the medium that gets processed—as regions within
expressions or structures. A few familiar examples are shown in
Figure 2-9. Particular words are parts of particular sentences. Num-
ber, letter, and operation-mark tokens are part of an equation. And
so on. In the analysis of representation and computation of the
previous two sections there was no need for anything such as sym-

