Foundations of Cognitive Science = 89

world via the development of intelligence testing and the impor-
tance it has assumed in the struggle of minorities and those without
privilege. Contention surrounding the other foundational concepts
we've covered, such as knowledge and representation, has
managed to remain contained, for the most part, to the intellectual
{sic} disciplines, such as philosophy.

The notion of intelligence is not only contentious, it expresses
itself in the existence of a multiplicity of notions (Sternberg, 1985a;
Sternberg & Detterman, 1986}. These notions all bear a family re-
semblance, but the differences embody the needs to make intelli-
gence serve different causes, so that synthesis and melding is pre-
cisely what is not permitted—which does not prevent recurrent
attempts (Sternberg, 1985b). The notion of a single, universal kind
of intelligence is set in opposition to multiple intelligences, such as

* academic intelligence and real-world (or practical) intelligence

(Neisser, 1979), which distinction is in the service of arguments
over education in the schools and its adequacy for life beyond the
school. The notion of a single, universal concept of intelligence is
also set in opposition to the relativity of the concept to the culture
that defines it, which distinction is in the service of arguments over
the dominance of Western ways of thought (Cole & Scribner, 1974).
The notion of intelligence as a scientific construct defined entirely
by a technology for creating tests is set in opposition to a notion of
defining it by cognitive theories and experiment. In this last case, at
least, there has been a vigorous and sustained movement to bring
the two notions together (Sternberg, 1985a), although not one that
has yet fully succeeded.

We cannot thereby simply walk away from the concept. Indeed,
there is no reason to do so. Science engages in a continuous process
of appropriation and refinement of concepts used elsewhere in soci-
ety. Some notion is required of a graded ability or power of a mind-
like system, which applies in some way to ranges or classes of tasks
and ranges or classes of minds to indicate what minds can perform
what tasks. There is little doubt about the usefulness of such a
concept. It would seem that a theory of mind must contain such a
concept. If it doesn't, the theory should tell us why such a notion is
not definable or is definable only within certain limits.

In fact, the theory described in this chapter, whose key notions
are knowledge, representation, computation, symbols, and archi-
tecture, contains within it a natural definition of intelligence:

‘
