40 = Unified Theories of Cognition

already provides a clue. As far as lam concerned, Al is the study of
the mechanisms of intelligence and alt supporting technologies, ex-
tending to perception and motion, namely robotics. AI is itself part
of computer science, which is the study of information and its pro-
cessing in all its variety.

Al provides the theoretical infrastructure for the study of human
cognition. It has already provided much of our knowledge of what

i intelligence is all about and how it is to be realized in information-

processing mechanisms. Being an infrastructure, AI fills an entire
spectrum of specific roles (Newell, 1970)—from enforcing opera-
tional thinking about processes, to a theoretically neutral language
of processing, to metaphors about the kinds of processings that
might occur in the mind. Various of these specific roles are some-
times taken as the primary way AI relates to psychology. In fact, it
plays them all.

Al has one additional critical contribution to make to understand-
ing the mind. What’s most important in understanding intelligence
is how it functions. The first question to ask about any theory of the
nature of intelligent action, whether in humans or machines, is
whether it in fact produces intelligent action—effective problem
solving, perception, learning, movement, or whatever. Though the
issue of functionality might not be central in some areas of psychol-
ogy, it is critical for perception, cognition, and action. Thus the
basic theory of the mechanisms of intelligence is central to human
cognition.

1 will draw on AI in all these ways throughout the book, without
further special comment or acknowledgment.

1.4.4. Preview of the Chapters

' This brings us, at last, to a foreshadowing of the chapters them-

selves. Chapter 2 will introduce the foundations of cognitive sys-
tems. What do the terms mean that we all use—knowledge, repre-
sentation, computation, symbols, architecture, intelligence, search.
This will take us back over familiar territory, but it is useful. It gets
us started in the right way and prepares the ground. As a minor
benefit, it will provide for those readers who feel a need for defini-
tions.

Chapter 3 moves to basic aspects of the human cognitive ar-
chitecture. We inquire into what general conditions shape the hu-
man architecture. Given that the human is constructed out of neural

