78 = Unified Theories of Cognition

system cannot do, and so it will fail to be a universal machine. Both
forms of completeness need not be immediate in any sense, but
may require lengthy and devious processing—just as long as the
machine eventually gets there.

That is all there is to a symbol system, even though the specifica-

: tion seems extremely nonspecific. A symbol system is sufficient for
producing all computable functions (it is universal). It is as Nexible
as it is possible to be. But also, if the variety of knowledge and goals
to be represented is large enough, a symbol system is necessary,
both to obtain universality and to obtain distal access.

There may still seem to be a problem with symbol systems. How

: do the symbols in symbol systems represent something external to
the symbol system? As it is often put, how do symbols acquire their
semantic function of referring to things in the external world? Ac-
cessing in symbol systems is an internal operation—a symbol gives
access to another symbol structure still in the internal memory of
the system. How does it ever happen that a symbol actually refers
to or denotes or designates or stands for or is about something
outside the system itself? In philosophy this is called the problem of

' intentionality, after Brentano (1874). It still seems to be with us in
the cognitive sciences. Even Pylyshyn (1984), who subscribes to a
view of computation and symbol systems rather close to the one in
this chapter, still maintains that it is not clear how symbols are
about external objects."

Within the framework set out here, the matter seems straight-
forward. Start out with knowledge systems. Knowledge is about its
domain, which is external to the system being characterized. To
have the knowledge that the block is on the table is to have knowl-
edge about the block and about the table. Knowledge is a way of
describing a system whose behavior can be computed (by an ob-
server) with respect to an external environment. Symbol systems
realize knowledge systems. At least some of them do, and these are
the ones of interest here. They do so only approximately, of course,
a matter to which we will return. Hence, symbol systems are about
the same external things that the knowledge systems they realize
are about. After all, it is the same system that is being described,
just in two different ways. Symbol systems realize knowledge sys-

13. However, a recent treatment of the foundations by Fodor and Pylyshyn (1988)
seems to indicate that he no longer takes this to be an issue,

