Memory, Learning, and Skill = 349

The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
Lye daick promy 40x Inusba oneL spe jssA qoa:

Read word
Input string + word — access meaning

Input string

If character — read; else decompose string

Read inverted word

Input-inverted-string > word — access meaning
Input investing string

Kf character > read — invert; else decompose string

Figure 6-19. The inverted reading task.

better, but they never read backward as quickly as they read nor-
mally.

The figure shows a simple version of how Soar might do the task
of reading aloud. Soar has not actually been run on the Kolers
inverted-text task; this example is used as another exercise in how
to work with Soar at an abstract level of analysis. Soar has an
operator for reading a normal word—input the string of letters, then
get the word, and then access the meaning. Each of these is an
operator in the implementation space of the read-word operator.
We are interested only in the operator to input a string of letters—if
what has been input is something recognizable, then read it; other-
wise, decompose the string to find recognizable subparts. Soar
would start out by decomposing until it reached individual recog-
nizable elements, in essentially the same way it did the typing in
Chapter 5. As chunks get built, sequences of letters will be recog-
nized. The chunks build up a hierarchy.

Given this organization for normal reading aloud, an inverted
word will be read as shown at the bottom of the figure. Exactly the
same activities occur, except input-inverted-string reads the string,
rather than input-string. Again, if the string is recognizable, then it
is read; if it is not and it is composite, then it is decomposed. This
new situation occurs when an inverted character is obtained. This
inverted character must be recognized by reference to the normal
character. What is required to recognize the character depends on
the character—recognizing inverted c, d, k, and ¢ all pose different
problems. Several operations are available—hypothesizing charac-

