Symbolic Processing for Intetligence = 193

There are a total of twelve chunks in the figure; ten of them get
evoked in only one situation, but two of them (chunks 1 and 3) get
evoked in two. These twelve chunks completely learn the space, in
that they let Soar move on a direct path from any state to any other
state. The chunks do not depend on the actual labels used on the
blocks, only on the relevant source-destination relations. Thus, if
we consider tasks as they are actually encountered by the problem
solver, these same chunks will actually be evoked in many different
situations, and they will guide Soar on a direct route for any task.

These chunks will get built any‘time Soar passes through a choice
point where the chunk will apply. For instance, in any task heading
for A/B/C, Soar will finally arrive at A,B/C and in taking the last
step it will build chunk 1. Once built, the chunk will apply in all the
other places and in any other task that passes this way. Thus we get
a bird's-eye view of what transfer of learning means in this blocks
world. Soar needs to accumulate the 12 chunks to learn the whole
space, and it doesn’t make any difference what set of tasks is used
to learn these 12 chunks, as long as there is coverage. From the
point of view of individual tasks, of course, the accumulation of
chunks implies transfer of learning from one task to another.

Finally, it is useful to return to the preparation vs. deliberation
trade-off space in Figure 2-19. Chunking, considered as a caching
mechanism, is a general way for the system to walk up an isobar,
continually shedding search and replacing it with more directly
available knowledge, that is, with prepared patterns that can be
recognized. As such, it provides a mechanism that satisfies the
requirement analyzed in Chapter 3 for continually compressing the
~~10 sec level down toward the ~~1 sec level. Interestingly, there
seems to be no corresponding uniform mechanism for moving down
the isobar, giving up recognition knowledge and doing more search.
As with caching, this picture would be satisfactory except for the
possibitity of transfer. The transfer of learning complicates the situ-
ation substantially. But it is still useful to think of chunking as a
shift upward along the isobar.

4.3. The Total Cognitive System

We have now described the central cognitive structure of Soar
(Figure 4-1): problem spaces, the recognition memory (production
system), attribute-value representation, the decision cycle, prefer-
ences, impasses, subgoals, and chunking. This structure sits within
