112 » Unified Theories of Cognition

of the human cognitive architecture. As a second given, it will take
an architecture to be a structure that supports mind-like behavior.
From Chapter 2 we already have a characterization of what that
means. To these two starting points this chapter will add what can
be called the real-time constraint on human cognition. From these
three constraints will be derived a number of iy aspects of the
cognitive architecture.

Whatever can be derived from these general considerations will
no longer provide possible options in specifying the details of the
human architecture. The wisdom of such a strategy—of attempting
to divide and conquer—should be evident from the discussion in
the last chapter. In Figure 2-14, for example, we saw that large
degrees of freedom are available to construct architectures of sym-
bolic systems. We also noted some assessments in the field that the
architecture may be essentially a hidden variable—that there is no
way to determine what representations or what control structures
are used. Since any general (that is, universal) architecture can
mimic any other, so goes this fine, the situation is hopeless. (My
response was to propose bringing knowledge to bear from many
different sources.) Clearly, then, whatever aspects of the architec-
ture that can be pinned down from the general situation within
which the human architecture is constructed and operates can only
help in making the internal details identifiable.

Here is another way to think about the enterprise of this chapter.
Evolution is the designer of the human cognitive architecture. It
will pick and choose systems that will aid in the survival of the
species. Our problem as scientists is to guess what design evolution
has settled for to date. We know a little about evolution as a de-
signer. It never starts over, but always works with what is avail-
able. In Jacob’s (1973) now famous phrase, evolution is a tinkerer.
For instance, once a species is committed to a K-strategy (heavy
investment in few progeny) evolution will not shift it to the opposite
r-strategy (light investment in many progeny)—it is too hard to get
from here to there. Evolution picks its architectures within the
design constraints posed by the local situations in which the species
finds itself. If we can discern some of these constraints, then we can
delimit the field within which evolution must operate.

This chapter is speculative. Any attempt to get at general charac-
teristics from general considerations must run this risk. [ will com-

