406 «© Unified Theories of Cognition

ceivable (in another model) that none are (if none of the y’s that are
2's are x's). Getting the correct answer (that there is no valid con-
clusion) requires recognizing that either model could be. correct and
hence that it is not necessarily true that some x's are z’s. Thus, we
would expect this syllogism to be relatively difficult. We would also
expect that some x are z would be a fairly common response. The
data in Figure 7-11 bear out both these predictions. Only four sub-
jects (and two Soar variants) gave the correct response (NVC), and
13 subjects (13 Soar variants) made the predicted error (Zxz). Simi-
lar predictions for the other syllogisms are also accurate (see John-
son-Laird & Bara, 1984, for a more detailed account).

We have also seen how the theory is tailored to account for
individual differences by varying it along certain dimensions. The
accuracy of this account can also be seen in Figure 7-11. Cells that
contain people responses (have numbers in the top half) also tend
to contain Soar responses (parenthesized numbers underneath).
Also, responses that people did not give (no number in the top half)
were virtually never given by any of the Soar variants (no number
in bottom half). We were even able to fit the frequency of responses
by varying the number of each Soar variant. Thus, there is a high
correlation between the number of people responses in each cell
(number in upper half) and the number of Soar-variant responses
(number in lower half).

The theory also produces the atmosphere and figural effects. To
see the atmosphere effect, consider the syllogisms in Figure 7-11
that have a some premise (the column heading contains either an J
or an O). The most common responses for these syllogisms (both
for subjects and Soar variants) tend to be some conclusions (Ixz,
Oxz, fzx, or Ozx). Conversely, syllogisms that do not have a some
premise tend toward universal conclusions (Axz, Exz, Azx, Ezx).
Similarly, syllogisms that contain a negative premise (an £ or O in
the column heading) tend to lead to negative conclusions (Exz, Oxz,
Ezx, Ozx), whereas syllogisms with only positive premises tend to
lead to positive conclusions (Axz, [xz, Azx, Izx). The figural effect
shows up in the xy-yz and yx-zy figures of Figure 7-11 (the upper-left
and lower-right quadrants). In the xy-yz figure (upper left), conclu-
sions tend to have x as the subject rather than z, so there are many
more responses (both for people and Soar variants) in the top four
rows of that quadrant (Axz-Oxz) than in the next four rows (Azx-
Ozx). In the yx-zy figure (lower right), the effect is reversed. Re-
sponses are much less common in the first four rows (Axz-Oxz) than

