244 = Unified Theories of Cagnition

argument that lots of us should try to do so. There exists a sufficient
collection of reliable results about the microstructure of behavior
that an architecture has to satisfy, so we could, with immense
profit, spend our time theorizing about the architecture.

This attitude clashes sharply with a repeatedly voiced concern
over nonidentifiability in psychology. It is not possible to determine
whether item-recognition tasks are being done by serial or parallel
processes (Townsend, 1974). It is not possible to identify what
representation is being used (Anderson, 1978). This issue was men-
tioned in Chapter 1, but it obviously bears directly on the present
contention, so I repeat myself. This concern over nonidentifiability
seems to me a methodological artifact. It shows up only when atten-
tion is focused on one specific task, one specific type of data, and
one specific inference situation. If one considers only a specific
item-recognition task, only reaction-time measurements, and a the-
ory that is completely sui generis so no general architectural prin-
ciples hold—then, and only then, do essential difficulties of
identification arise. Demonstrations of nonidentifiability require
formalization; and formalization leads, of itself, to lean, abstract
situations (the rest are too complex to formalize), so the search for
demonstrations of nonidentifiability tends to be successful. But the
actual situation of psychology is just the opposite. There is an im-
mense diversity of specific experimental constraints, along with
general bounding principles (such as those derived from the real-
time constraint of Chapter 3). These are sufficient, I believe, to pin
down the architecture in most of its major aspects. We are faced
with an embarrassment of riches and our problems are how to cope
with the complexity of it and how to have the courage to deal with
it. Of course, there can be no prior demonstration of the sufficiency
of any fixed collection of regularities. We will know that the ar-
chitecture is identifiable only when it is identified. So what I have
expressed here is an opinion, although I trust an informed one.

The point is not that further experimentation should not occur.
That is a foolish extrapolation. There are vast fields of human be-
havior that are essentially unexplored and often a direct experimen-
tal attack on a question is by far the most efficient way to get
information. The point is to increase the relative energies devoted
to theoretical integration of the vast collection of regularities that
we already have in hand. The point is also to increase awareness of
how unlikely it is that any new regularity will make a bravura ap-

