Memory, Learning, and Skill # 311

tules, as that term is used in discussions of rule-following behavior
and whether humans do or do not follow rules. As the mapping at
the ~~10 ms level indicates, chunks are memory accesses. But
they are active because the recognition memory is active, initiating
the entry of its contents (the actions) whenever its conditions are
satisfied.

Chunking can be viewed as a form of permanent goal-based cach-
ing. Chunks generalize ta new operating contexts, but they do so
implicitly, because many elements in working memory when the
chunk is created do not become conditions in the chunk. Learning
occurs during problem solving and takes effect as soon as the chunk
is created. Chunks are created for all impasses, hence for all sub-
goals; and since subgoals arise for all aspects of Soar, chunks are
formed for search control, operator implementation, and many
other things. But Soar learns only where the system has its experi-
ences, for it only impasses because of its current activities.

There is no way to address directly the sufficiency of chunking as
a learning mechanism. No taxonomy of all types of learning exists,
against which chunking can be tested, and no such taxonomy
should be expected, given the broad usage of the term. What is
clear is that humans learn in all kinds of ways—that their learning is
not strongly channeled. This is just another way of expressing what
we termed in Chapter 3 their extreme qualitative adaptiveness.
Hence, the diversity of learnings that Soar has engaged in so far is
relevant to the sufficiency of chunking. It cannot settle the question
definitively, but it can provide a positive indication or, contrari-
wise, reveal that chunking is a narrow mechanism.

Figure 6-3 shows the current situation for Soar (Steier et al.,
1987). This characterization is nonsystematic—it simply gathers up
and organizes the types of learning that have shown up in our
aggregate experience with Soar. There have been no deliberate
attempts with Soar to produce any specific sort of coverage—
although we have been intrigued, and occasionally delighted, as
new forms of learning have emerged.

Let's start with types of transfer, where the learning that occurs
in one situation is used in a different situation. Soar exhibits within-
trial transfer (recall Figures 4-18 and 4-21). That was the initial
surprise with chunking: chunks formed early in a task applied im-
mediately before the end of the task. In retrospect, that should not
have surprised us. I suppose we were caught off guard because

val
