Along the Frontiers a 461

absent. In short, the analysis provides comparative statics, but no
dynamics, no mechanisms of transition. Collectively this work con-
stitutes a major accomplishment. It provides the necessary frame of
psychologically relevant task analysis.

The central question in the current era for the psychology of
cognitive development is what the transition mechanisms are.!®
There is an underlying dilemma associated with this question by
now, at least in my own interpretation of the field. There appear to
be two quite different alternatives, and the question is which alter-
native holds. It is a dilemma because each alternative has its own
special difficulty.

One alternative is that there is some long-term mechanism that
accounts for development. Development takes a long time,
~~years. Thus there could be some undiscovered long-term mech-
anisms with the appropriate time constants of the order of
~~months. If you take this horn of the dilemma, then your prob-
lem is what such a mechanism could be. Although there are a few
ideas that seem plausible for the very young, such as the growth of
myelination of nerve fibers (Case, 1985), there are no reasonable
candidates for what might work after the child is a few years old.
You can simply posit something, such as a mechanism for the au-
tonomous growth of short-term memory, but the evidence is not
with you (Chi, 1978). So, that is one alternative.

The other alternative is that development occurs via the acquisi-
tion mechanisms that we already know something about. There are
two such mechanisms. One is long-term memory acquisition, which
phenomenally occurs on the time scale of minutes or even as short
as ~~10 sec, The other is skill acquisition, which phenomenally
occurs on the time scale of days to weeks."! If you choose this horn
of the dilemma, then the problem is why development takes so
long. If development is just an issue of learning what to do, what is
going on that takes months or years to happen? Although skill has a
more commensurate time course, it seems to have exactly the

10. I have phrased the story in terms of Piagetian stages. Naturally enough, part of
the field denies stages and saitatory transition mechanisms. The story could also have
been told in terms of this other approach. The processes of change that take the cognitive
four-year-old to the cognitive twelve-year-old remain unexplicated, no matter how you
smooth out the transitions.

it. In Soar, both acquisitions occur by chunking with its own special time constants
as a mechanism: but I wish to pose this dilemma from a more general perspective.

