CAT VISUAL CORTEX 137

areas; if complex, they required identical stimuli for their activation. As
a rule these fields did not have exactly the same retinal position, but were
staggered as described above. In two thirds of the multiple recordings the
cells differed to varying degrees in their receptive field arrangements. Two
types of multiple recordings in which field arrangements differed seem
interesting enough to merit a separate description.

A B
5 6 8 9
a,
ae wd AXE hy
«x PX boo, on AEX
Gdka
Seah RES
Pe, Nyx

Text-fig. 16. Detailed arrangements of the receptive fields of two pairs of simul-
taneously recorded cells (nos. 5 and 6, and 8 and 9, of Text-fig. 15). The crosses of
diagrams 5 and 6 are superimposed as are the double crosses of 8 and 9. Note that
the upper excitatory region of 5 is superimposed upon the excitatory region of 6;
and that both regions of 8 are superimposed on the inhibitory and lower excitatory
regions of 9. Scale, 1°.

In several multiple recordings the receptive fields overlapped in such a
way that one or more excitatory or inhibitory portions were superimposed.
‘Two examples are supplied by cell-pairs 5 and 6, and 3 and 9 of Text-fig. 15.
Their fields are redrawn in Text-fig. 16. The fields of ceils 5 and 6 are drawn
separately (Text-fig. 16.4) but they actually overlapped so that the re-
ference lines are to be imagined as superimposed. Thus the ‘on’ centre of
cell 6 fell directly over the upper ‘on’ flank of 5 and the two cells tended
to fire together to suitably placed stimuli. A similar situation existed for
cells 8 and 9 (Text-fig. 16.B). The field of 9 was placed so that its ‘off’
region and the lower, weaker ‘on’ region were superimposed on the two
regions of 8. Again the two ceils tended to fire together. Such examples
suggest that neighbouring cells may have some of their inputs in
common,

Cells responded reciprocally to a light stimulus in eight of the forty-
three multiple recordings. An example of two cells responding reciprocally
to stationary spots is shown in Text-fig. 17. In each eye the two receptive
fields were almost superimposed. The fields consisted of elongated obliquely
oriented central regions, inhibitory for one cell, excitatory for the other,
flanked on either side by regions of the opposite type. Instead of firing
together in response to an optimally oriented stationary slit, like the cells

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
