86 « Unified Theories of Cognition

nomic. As long as some task is rare enough and cheap eriough for
humans to perform, there is little pressure to make the computer
perform that task autonomously. Gradually, of course, especially
as computers have become more reliable and cheaper, and as we
have discovered how to do increasingly diverse tasks, computers
have evolved to become increasingly autonomous.

In any analysis of the architectures of natural systems, the con-
cepts available from computer architectures are useful, although
they hardly do the whole job. The autonomy of natural systems,
especially humans, far exceeds that of computers—indeed, that is
why humans can be the keepers of computers and not vice versa.'”
The issues of interruption, protection, and dynamic resource allo-
cation arise in human functioning, and the mechanisms and solu-
tions used in computers for these functions provide a framework for
exploring how human architectures are structured. But the evolu-
tion of computers toward autonomy is hardly complete. It is part of
our scientific task to understand what additional functions are re-
quired for architectures that support intelligence. For example, just
to be concrete, a certain modularity of memory might be necessary
for learning to take place autonomously.

As the specifications for architectures accumulate, along with the
multitude of functions they should perform, it might seem that we
are converging on a specific architecture in all its details. Whatever
might be true when all of the constraints of Figure 1-7 are simulta-
neously applied is assuredly or true at the present stage. The sys-
tems are capable of great flexibility and immense variety. As Figure
2-14 illustrates schematically, many different symbol systems are
possible, also many different architectures, and many different
technologies. It is not just that there is variety, it is radical variety.
Almost every sort of material can be fashioned into some sort of
technology for general computation—magnetic, electrostatic,
fluidic, biologic, mechanical (even the blocks world with rubber-
band connections). Furthermore, the relationships between these
levels are not one-to-one. Many different architectures can realize a
given symbol system. Many different technologies can realize
a given architecture. The same technology can be used to realize

17. We should not forget the ambiguity of the autonomy dimension of Figure 1-7.
Humans are also strongly dependent on their embedding social system.

