322 = Unified Theories of Cognition

so in terms of chunking—that the chess master acquires, through
extensive experience, spatially and functionally related groups of
chess pieces that are treated as single units, both in terms of percep-
tion and memory. Chunking permits the master to characterize a
complex arrangement of many pieces in just a few chunks, whereas
the novice, who has essentially one chunk per piece, can grasp only
a few pieces. There are a number of interlocking results in this area,
including simulations of the chunking and retrieval behavior, and
they provide one of the major pillars of empirical evidence for
chunking in humans. Soar is entirely consonant with this theory,
including the fact that the chunks have a strong functional character
(and also a strong spatial-contiguity character).

The items in Figure 6-6 are recognizably similar to the character-
istics of human learning and memory, both in terms of casual obser-
vation and in terms of the broad picture painted in the psychological
literature. The list is no more than a broad-brush qualitative picture
and it is not intended to be otherwise. One of its deficiencies, in
common with the analogous list in Figure 4-24, is the lack of any
systematic principle of generation for the items of the list, even a
principle of generation independent of the theory (here Soar). This
deficiency cannot be solved in this book. I present the evidence just
as one dimension of evaluation of a unified theory of cognition. It is
important, however, that a candidate theory be evaluated at this
gross qualitative level.

6.3. The Distinction between Episodic and Semantic Memory

A unified theory of cognition must give an account of the major
types of memory that have been found empirically. Psychology has
developed a small taxonomy of memories. Ultimately, what must
be explained are the (many) specific experiments that gave rise to
the particular memory distinctions. But at a global level it is useful
to ask how such a theory~—here Soar—handles memory, as stan-
dardly conceived.

One important example is the distinction between episodic mem-
ory and semantic memory, introduced by Endel Tulving in 1969 and
discussed extensively by him more recently (Tulving, 1983). The
distinction arises as a late development in the central learning tradi-
tion of American experimental psychology, which has focused on
verbal learning. This tradition is concerned with using verbal mate-

