142 D.H. HUBEL AND T. N. WIESEL

field such as that of Text-fig. 2) are of the same order of magnitude as
the diameters of geniculate receptive-field centres, at least for fields in or
near the area centralis. Hence the fineness of discrimination implied by
the small size of geniculate receptive-field centres is not necessarily lost at
the cortical level, despite the relatively large total size of many cortical
fields; rather, it is incorporated into the detailed substructure of the
Cortical fields.

Text-fig. 19. Possible scheme for explaining the organization of simple receptive
fields. A large number of lateral geniculate cells, of which four are illustrated in
the upper right in the figure, have receptive fields with ‘on’ centres arranged along
@ straight line on the retina. All of these project upon a single cortical cell, and the
synapses are supposed to be excitatory. The receptive field of the cortical cell will
then have an elongated ‘on’ centre indicated by the interrupted lines in the
receptive-field diagram to the left of the figure.

In a similar way, the simple fields of Text-fig. 2D-G may be constructed
by supposing that the afferent ‘on’- or ‘off’-centre geniculate cells have
their field centres appropriately placed. For example, field-type G could
be formed by having geniculate afferents with “off” centres situated in the
region below and to the right of the boundary, and ‘on’ centres above and
to the left. An asymmetry of flanking regions, as in field Z, would
be produced if the two flanks were unequally reinforced by ‘on’-centre
afferents.

The model of Text-fig. 19 is based on excitatory synapses. Here the
suppression of firing on illuminating an inhibitory part of the receptive
field is presumed to be the result of withdrawal of tonic excitation, i.e. the
inhibition takes place at a lower level. That such mechanisms occur in the
visual system is clear from studies of the lateral geniculate body, where
an off centre cell is suppressed on illuminating its field centre because of
suppression of firing in its main excitatory afferent (Hubel & Wiesel, 1961).
In the proposed scheme one should, however, consider the possibility of
direct inhibitory connexions. In Text-fig. 19 we may replace any of the
excitatory endings by inhibitory ones, provided we replace the corre-
sponding geniculate cells by ones of opposite type (‘on’-centre instead of
“oi -centre, and conversely). Up to the present the two mechanisms have

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
