Symbolic Processing for Intelligence = 207

The two learning columns of Figure 4-18 show two things. First,
they show that Soar can become knowledge-intensive by chunking,
that is, by learning. This learning occurs in a reasonably complex
nontoy task. We cannot see from the figure exactly what is learned
by the chunks, although it is evident that it takes many chunks to
equal the couple of manually contrived productions. Second, prob-
Jem solving and learning intertwine. Given a system that always ran
with chunking, analogously to the way humans learn continuously
from experience, there would be continual instantaneous feedfor-
ward from chunking to the immediately following performance.
Thus we are led to describe within-trial transfer in contradistinction
to the usual between-trials transfer. Within-trial transfer seldom
shows up in psychological studies, because there is no convenient
way to obtain the baseline of behavior without learning required for
the comparison. Human learning cannot be turned off.

R1-Soar provides a nice demonstration of many characteristics of
Soar, with respect to both performance and learning, However, this
is a typical Al-oriented analysis, which uses expert systems to pro-
vide the basis of the significance of various aspects of the system.
We need to reflect on what this example means for a unified theory
of cognition. Soar is a model of the human cognitive architecture—
that is, it embodies the theory. A central prediction of any such
theory is that humans can behave intelligently. The only way we
know to get this prediction from a theory is to show concretely that
a system designed according to the theory (Soar) behaves intelli-
gently. If one had an independently established theory of what
mechanisms are sufficient for intelligence, then various alternative
demonstrations might be available to show that a proposed unified
theory predicted intelligent behavior. But no such theory is in sight
and it is not clear what one would be like. Thus, we must demon-
strate directly the sufficiency of these mechanisms to produce gen-
eral intelligent behavior. It is important that this demonstration
show as much intelligent capability as possible. Doing some small
toy task, such as moving blocks around on a table, no longer suf-
fices. We know many ways of doing such tasks that are not con-
vincing as demonstrations of intelligence in more general and diffi-
cult situations (although we understand fairly well the kernel of
truth they contain). Soar needs to be able to work on real tasks, and
indeed on a variety of real tasks. Ri-Soar makes a positive contri-
bution in this direction.

