Human Cognitive Architecture « 131

In fact, the constraint has a much greater effect than just the
elimination of programs with single threads of control in favor of
massive parallelism. It binds ali approaches. There are only a few
cycles available for any kind of interaction. Parallel systems, even
massively parallel ones, do not behave without interacting—
without bringing the results of computations in one part of the
network into contact with developing results in other parts of the
network. In terms of the structure of the algorithms typically used
with massively parallel systems, this interaction shows up as the
number of successive propagations of constraints or as the number
of steps to reach acceptably near the top in hill climbing, or to settle
into equilibrium. These steps play the same role in massively paral-
lel systems as program steps play in serial programs. And in all
cases there are only about 100 such steps, end to end, to produce
cognitive behavior.

In sum, all theories live under the same sword of Damocles.
From a theorist’s point of view, this is great. The harsher the con-
straint (providing it is true), the more chance of extracting some
real knowledge about how the system is structured or operates. It
may stump theoretical advance for a while, if no way can be seen
for the system to operate within its limits. But that just provides the
anvil against which to hammer out the right theory. Thus, the real-
time constraint on cognition, although metaphorically a curse to the
organism, is a genuine blessing to the theorist. [ take no credit for
being the first one to observe the constraint. However, I do want to
put it to good use.

3.7. The Cognitive Band

We are now ready to start from neural circuits, at ~~-10 ms, and
climb up the levels of the cognitive band. We have established a
clamp from above on how much time is needed for cognitive behav-
ior to arise. It is possible to think of the gap to be covered in terms
of a total of ~~ 100 steps, but it is better viewed as two minimal
system levels. Each system level is ~~10 times longer in duration
than the next lower level, so that two levels comprise ~10 x ~~10
= ~~100 steps. Thus, starting with neural circuits of minimal size,
a system level can be built out of these and then, with the new
systems as components, another system level can be built on top.

nt
