Foundations of Cognitive Science = 93

In general, the greater the intelligence, the better the perfor-
mance. That is, the more the knowledge of the system is taken into
account, the more will it attain its goals. Additional knowledge may
not help—it may be irrelevant—but it cannot hurt. This ignores any
processing costs of finding or applying the additional knowledge—
because that is exactly what the knowledge level abstracts away
from. It is of course easy to construct counter-examples, where a
little additional knowledge leads a system astray. This can occur
because the knowledge is in fact not true of the actual situation.
Sometimes what seems to be going on is that the knowledge is not
wrong, just incomplete. But then the knowledge that is wrong is the
default assumptions that the system must use in order to produce
action in the face of uncertainty.

Intelligence is a notion that applies only to knowledge-level sys-
tems. It does not apply to all machines. The question of whether an
arbitrary machine is intelligent cannot be formutated within this
theory. Intelligence does not even apply to all symbol systems,
because not all symbol systems approximate knowledge-level sys-
tems (any more than all register-transfer systems approximate sym-
bol systems).

Intelligence does apply to all knowledge-level systems—no mat-
ter how simple they are. This statement leads to a counterintuitive
result: simple systems can have perfect intelligence. If the goal is
narrow enough and the knowledge is delineated enough, then the
system may not have to do much in order to use all its knowledge in
the service of its goal. The thermocouple provides an example. Let
the thermocouple be defined as having only one goal (to maintain a
room temperature to a norm), one action (change the state of the
furnace from on to off or vice versa), and only two items of knowl!-
edge (a general one: on increases the temperature and off decreases
it; and a momentary one: the temperature is above or below the
norm). Then, in its usual mode of operation, a thermocouple can be
described as a knowledge-level system. As such, it has perfect intel-
ligence. This arises from the simplicity of the thermocouple and not
from any exalted status. It is the same old simple thermocouple it
has always been. The change is only in the description. The same is
true of the old (but still used) verbal tactic of describing a rock as
intelligent because it seeks its level (Baars, 1986, p. 99, although the
reference is actually to consciousness).

There is a strong temporal aspect to- intelligence. This feature is
seen clearly in the standard formulations of quantified logics. A

dy

NAL
