Foundations of Cognitive Science » 89

Let's describe abstractly what is going on in Figure 2-6. The
original external situation is encoded into an internal situation. The
external transformation is also encoded into an internal transforma-
tion. Then the internal transformation is applied to the internal
situation to obtain a new internal situation. Finally, the new interna!
situation is decoded to an external situation. Suppose that the re-
sulting external situation is the same as the situation produced by
the external transformation. Then the internal system—the encod-
ing process, the internal situation, the internal transformation, and
the decoding process—has successfully been used as a representa-
tion of the external situation.

This is the essence of representation—to be able to go from
something to something else by a different path when the originals
are not available. We can cast this as a general law:

The representation law:
decode[encode(7(encode(X))] = T(X)

where X is the original external situation and Tis the exter-
nal transformation

This is called the representation law because it is the general form.
Actually, there are myriad representation laws, one each for the
myriad particular encode-apply-decode paths that represent an ex-
ternal path. Each encode-apply-decode path is unique exactly as
Tequired to reflect the aspects of the external path that are repre-
sented. The processes of encoding and decoding are part of the
path, so they become an essential part of the law. There can be
multiple forms of encoding, for there are many different situations
that can lead to the same encoded situation, The same external
situation can (on occasion) be viewed, heard, read about, or felt,
Likewise, there can be multiple forms of decoding, for there are
many different ways to interact with an external situation. The
same external situation can be identified as another (that is, tested),
selected out, constructed, or described (leaving the actual contact
to someone else). The central claim behind the representation law is
that if anything is used as a representation, then a law of the above
form will be the essential ingredient that explains why the internal
situation represents the external situation.

A representational system carries with it One other requirement.
Namely, the internal system has to be controlled in some way. The

