28 = Unified Theories of Cognition

explains how children learn to check geometry proofs and to do
elementary programming. There is language learning, with exten-
sive simulations. Explanations of all these essentially come out of
the same theory. Act* is an integrated theory that can be applied to
a wide domain of phenomena.

Of course, when Act* is examined closely, the explanations are
not totally integrated or always convincing. Given a complex
mechanism, not every part enters into every prediction. In fact, the
processing of activation tends to enter the immediate-response pre-
dictions and production composition tends to enter into skill acqui-
sition. However, in more subtle ways each of these aspects does
provide constraints and structure for the other. For instance, how
the activation flows, providing activation-based priming, is defined
by a set of productions. There are also limitations to the range of
mechanisms in Act*. The perceptual and motor systems are essen-
tially undefined, so that perceptual and motor phenomena simply
cannot be dealt with. Thus, the Act* explanations of some tasks,
such as mental rotation, are hard to evaluate, because the explana-
tions that Act* would offer to related phenomena, such as watching
stroboscopic images, are not defined.

Often, as well, when Act* predictions are examined closely,
much of the prediction depends on aspects of the Act* program
rather than on the Act* architecture itself. This difficulty has al-
ready surfaced—it is the numbers of degrees of freedom required
to specify a theory. It is real for Act*, but it is real, as well, for
any theory of cognition.

A different sort of criticism is that Act* does not exist as a cohe-
rent operational computer system. That may seem an odd sort of
criticism, given its advanced state along the computer-simulation
dimension relative to most of psychology. However, I believe it
rather important. The issue is not simulation versus no simulation;
rather, the issue is whether it is easy to work with the theory to
produce explanations. Techniques other than simulation might be
used, of course, but Act* is much too complex to be mathematically
tractable, except in simple cases. There is a simulation language
called Grapes, but it embodies only partial aspects of Act* and has
temained a somewhat difficult vehicle. There is no way to build
systems that behave like Act* and do substantial tasks, rather than
just little slivers of behavior here and there. Finally, on a more
substantive note, Act* is missing any higher levels of organization

