364 « Unified Theories of Cognition

the rational band (recall the time scale of human action in Figure
3-3}. The movement is gradual, since it depends on the abilities of
the organism to overcome, in each and every concrete case, the
constraints of how knowledge is internally represented and distrib-
uted. Thus, the architecture remains visible in behavior and so does
the symbolic processing to arrive at the appropriate responses.

Intelligence is a system’s degree of approximation to being a
knowledge-level system. It improves, presumably for most every-
body, as more time becomes available. Soar is a model of a system
with these properties. We spent some time in Section 4.6 examining
the mechanisms of Soar to see how they contributed to being a good
approximation of the knowledge-level system. Intelligence is af-
fected by many aspects of internal organization, however, which
means that, for fixed duration, some systems are more intelligent
than others. We have hardly probed the ways intelligence might
vary or, equivalently, what things might get in the way. As we look
at human behavior, lots of questions arise. How does a system
approach being rational? How fast does it approach? What other
limits might exist besides the temporal one? This is the conceptual
territory over which this chapter will travel.

7.1. Cryptarithmetic

Let us start with cryptarithmetic. This task was first analyzed by
Bartlett (1958) and later by Herb Simon and myself (Newell &
Simon, 1972). It plays an important role in the emergence of cogni-
tive psychology—at least for me, and perhaps for others. It has
been the strongest convincer that humans really do use problem
spaces and do search in them, just as the AJ theory of heuristic
search says.

A cryptarithmetic task is just a small arithmetical puzzle (see
Figure 7-1), The words DONALD, GERALD, and ROBERT repre-
sent three six-digit numbers. Each letter is to be replaced by a
distinct digit (that is, D and T must each be a digit, say D = 5 and
T = 0, but they cannot be the same digit). This replacement must
lead to a correct sum, such that DONALD + GERALD =
ROBERT. Mathematically viewed, the problem is one of satisfying
multiple integer constraints involving equality, inequality, and un-
equality.

Humans can be set to solving cryptarithmetic tasks, and pro-

