Along the Frontiers = 477

the comparison-description of the balance beam is hooked up witha
response. Hence, a new operator cannot be constructed. This was
not a problem in trial 2, where the difficulty was that the prior
operator said less weight on the left side means left goes down. In
trial 3, the experimenter has arranged it so that distance is the
relevant dimension, but the concept still in use involves only
weight. So nothing can be done at this level.

This impasse leads to the discrimination space (D). Both the
comparison and the encoding process are sources of additional dis-
crimination. Soar first tries to make a new comparison (the left
subcolumn G, to C to CU). But this fails, because Soar’s initial
encoding includes only weight and the weights on both sides are the
same but the distances are different. Soar then attempts to augment
its encoding. The encoding space (£) has a collection of operators
for taking measurements and noting features of the actual balance
beam. It thus builds new descriptions of the balance beam. It does
not build the description from scratch each time, but rather at-
tempts to add features to the description that it has. In the case in
hand, the children already know about distance (from many tasks at
which they are facile). Thus, the issue is that distance has not been
evoked as relevant to the current situation, although it is included
in the set of operators available in the encoding space. Other
operators are there as well, such as the ability to notice the specific
pegs, or the color of the disks (they alternated black and white in
Siegler’s experiment, for ease of counting), or the number of disks
(children are well aware of the small numbers, such as one, two,
and three, that occur in the experiment).

In the case illustrated in the figure, distance gets selected right
away as a relevant additional encoding. Given the encoding in
terms of distance, another attempt at constructing a useful compari-
son operator works (the right-hand subcolumn, G2-C-CU). This
leads to an acceptable prediction operator (the result of G2) and
successful performance on this balance-beam task. Soar has now
acquired the concept of rule 2, namely, if the weight is equal, then
discriminate on distance. It gets the assignment of comparison-
description to prediction right (the side with the greater distance
goes down), because the feedback provides the appropriate infor-
mation (which was not provided in the first trial).

The same basic strategy works again in the fourth trial which is
not shown in Figure 8-7. Instead, Figure 8-8 shows one additional

