Along the Frontiers » 433

It is important that Soar be seen to be a theory and not a frame-
work of some kind. For instance, it is not a loose verbal framework,
which guides the form of invented explanations but does not itself
provide them. Nor is it the sort of computational hamess system
that has begun to appear in Human Factors, in which specific psy-
chological theories can be plugged in as modules, with the frame-
work providing some sort of integration based on task analysis. On
the contrary, Soar is a specific theory by means of which one calcu-
lates, simulates, and reasons from its fixed structure. When it
seems not to be that way—when it seems to be too underdeter-
mined—the difficulty is almost invariably that the other determi-
nants of behavior are not sufficiently known (goals, knowledge, the
structure of the task environment). This is a genuine problem for all
the human sciences, even more so than for science in general, just
because humans, within their heads, bring into any situation so
much knowledge of the rest of the world and its history. It is a
genuine problem, but it does not make Soar a framework.

Soar is hardly perfect. No scientific theory is, of course. But with
Soar just an exemplar, there is no need to conceal its vulnerability
throughout. Moreover, we have spent no effort probing the limits of
Soar's explanatory adequacy. Instead, we have been driven by the
need to show that Soar has the earmarks of a unified theory of
cognition. Certainly, the positive description of Soar does not gain-
say what still needs to be done to analyze complete sets of regu-
larities in detail and to find where Soar breaks down.

In particular, given the ~~3,000 regularities that have been dis-
covered, there is a long way to go to obtain coverage of the aspects
of human cognition about which much is already known. To help
make this last point, Figure 8-! lists a potpourri of areas that have
not been addressed by Soar. It would be easy to generate twice as
many. I have put them in alphabetical order—what other order is
there for a potpourri?

Some of these items may seem peripheral, but some are exceed-
ingly important in probing whether Soar has the right fundamental
character. Consider a sampling (the starred items), to appreciate
the variety of what is missing. Start with consciousness. Soar pro-
vides a theory of awareness. Soar is aware of something if its delib-
erate behavior can be made to depend on it. In this sense, aware-
ness is operationally defined and fundamental, and it is a much-used
notion throughout cognitive psychology. But consciousness can be
