302 = Unified Theories of Cognition

data that together pose what I like to call the Great Psychology
Data Puzzle. The information is already there—all we need to do is
put the puzzle together.

We examined several immediate-response tasks, familiar from
the experimental literature: simple reaction-time tasks (SRT); two-
choice reaction-time tasks (2CRT), stimulus-response compatibility
(SRC), item recognition (the Sternberg phenomena), and, finally,
typing. This is not a very wide range of immediate-response tasks.
There are also same-difference judgments, counting, inequality
comparisons, the Posner letter task, psychophysical judgments—
the tasks go on, if not endlessly, at least for quite a while. But the
diversity we have shown is sufficient to indicate how Soar can
model them and that it can do so within some margin of approxima-
tion. How successful Soar will be in the other tasks cannot be
determined until the analyses are actually made. Likewise, how
much Soar will be refined to more fine-grained explanations cannot
be determined in advance. But for illustrating the reach of a unified
theory of cognition, the point is made. A unified theory of cognition
should generate explanations and predictions over the whole range
of immediate-response tasks.

The examples analyzed in this chapter were chosen to make a
number of points in addition to the basic one about providing expla-
nations over a wide range. First, Soar moves toward making zero-
parameter predictions. This is unusual for current theories in psy-
chology, but it should be a feature of any unified theory of
cognition, The problem is not that the constants are missing.
Rather, constants measured in one situation must work as well in
indefinitely many other situations. Second, we illustrated multiple
ways to use Soar as a theory, from the qualitative analysis in the
Sternberg task, to the functional-operator level in the reaction-time
and typing tasks, to the production-level analysis, also for the
Sternberg task. We will see additional ways before the book is over.
A theory is a body of knowledge, and it does not dictate the ways it
can be brought to bear. Third, we used stimulus-response compati-
bility and typing to illustrate the incorporation of existing theories
into Soar. Especially for unified theories, the relationship of a new
theory to existing theories is not always one of competition—of
which one is right. Soar now provides the same explanations of
SRC as the MHP does. Soar is instantly enriched and its scope
increased; the MHP is in no way diminished. Indeed, the MHP’s

