248 = Unified Theories of Cognition

value of the cognitive revolution in providing psychologists pro-
cedural languages that helped them to be operational about the
processes going on in cognition. Soar provides much more than that
(Newell, 1970), namely a theory of the human cognitive architec-
ture.

Soar does not automatically provide an explanation for anything
just because it is a universal computational engine. There are two
aspects to this assertion. First, from the perspective of cognitive
theory, Soar has to be universal, because humans themselves are
universal, To put this the right way around—Soar is a universal
computational architecture; therefore it predicts that the human
cognitive architecture is likewise universal. Second, universality
refers only to the class of functions that can ultimately be com-
posed. It doesn't deal with the sorts of errors that will be made,
with how fast Soar will run, and with what profile of durations of its
various subcomponents. Most ways of attaining a given result can
be seen not to be a way that humans do it, or indeed could do it. The
commonly heard argument to the effect that if something is a uni-
versal system it can explain anything is simply fallacious.

Soar’s programs are part of the theory that predicts behavior and
regularities. Having programs is inherent to architectures—they
are exactly the kinds of systems that have content that shapes and
determines their own behavior. Again, said the right way around,
Soar claims that humans have programs, indeed, that they have
analogous programs. However, the human programs are not arbi-
trary. They must be acquired somehow—by experience, by in-
struction, by some process that itself is a function of the human
architecture. Correspondingly, Soar must acquire its programs, and
by processes analogous to those occurring in humans. Treating
Soar as a unified theory implies that the acquisition process cannot
lie outside the theory. Such a demand cannot actually be met most
of the time, not just because of the frailty of theory but because
humans acquire their programs over vast reaches of past experi-
ence and arrive at a current task or experimental arrangement with
a mind packed full of programs and other knowledge. Mostly, then,
the theorist will load into Soar a program (a collection of produc-
tions organized into problem spaces) of his or her own devising,
proposing the resulting programmed system to be an explanation of
some phenomenon. The positing of theorist-programmed versions

