130 = Unified Theories of Cognition

the ten seconds several cognitive acts are occurring. Moves are
proposed internally, consequences are uncovered, realized to be
bad, and alternatives are considered. Not many, perhaps, but
some. A system could not play ten-second chess if it took one
minute to engage in its first cognitive behavior. Humans cannot
play one-second chess.

The point need not be belabored. A reasonable estimate for when
the human engages in cognitive behavior is ~~ sec, from which
the constraint can be calculated. Neurons operate at ~~1 ms;
neural circuits operate at ~~10 ms, and then cognitive behavior
occurs by ~~I sec. There is available only a factor of 100 between
~~10 ms and ~~1 sec. There are only about 100 ~~10-ms periods
to accomplish all that is necessary to produce cognitive behavior.
Just so we don’t forget it, let us restate this principle, all by itself.

Real-time constraint on cognition: There are available only
~ 100 operation times (two minimum system levels) to attain
cognitive behavior out of neural-circuit technology.

This constraint has been observed by many people. In fact, it has
become rather popular to do so recently. For instance, Jerry Feld-
man (Feldman & Ballard, 1982), one of the initiators of connection-
ism, coined the phrase “‘the 100 program-step limit’’ to indicate that
if one wanted to accomplish with a serial digital computer what the
brain does, one would have only 100 machine instructions.? As any
system programmer will testify, hardly anything can be done in so
few instructions. Jerry Fodor (1983, pp. 61-64), focusing on lan-
guage, devotes an extensive section of Modularity of Mind to how
fast people seem to understand and be able to tespond to natural
language. Much of the motivation for the observation has been to
discredit the so-called symbolic-intelligence position. The negative
point has been that the kinds of algorithms developed in computer
science and Al for language and vision, which appear strongly serial
in their operation, cannot explain how humans accomplish such
tasks. The positive point has been that the computational system
must be massively parallel.

9. Feldman was tatking about the range from ~~1 ms, the neural-action time, to
~~100 ms, which he took as the time to praduce a significant internal cognitive result,
but the point is exactly the same,

