254 = Unified Theories of Cognition

they are determined for any current computer implementation.’
The basic assumption is that the match cycle always takes approxi-
mately the same time, but the constancy need only be approximate.
Other aspects could have important temporal effects, such as the
number of conditions, their size or complexity, and so on. Assump-
tions should arise naturally from an understanding of the algorithms
that could govern the match in the human. The issue is com-
plicated, because an entire space of algorithms exists, varying along
dimensions, such as how much state is saved from cycle to cycle
and how much seriality is involved (Gupta, 1986).

All these proposed modifications and further specifications are
slated to be made in Soar in some form or another. They all have
some effect on aspects of immediate behavior, which is our concern
in this chapter. However, they will still leave Soar essentially the
same architecture described in Chapter 4.

5.3. Functional Analysis of Immediate Responses

The tasks that involve responding immediately to a presented stim-
ulus comprise a family with many common characteristics, al-
though of course each task has its own unique features. The first
step in considering how Soar behaves for such a family is to see if
these common characteristics permit Soar to be specialized. In this
respect, theories of the architecture are like the general partial dif-
ferential equations of physics, such as the wave equation or Max-
well's equations. They give rise to specialized theories for special-
ized classes of initial and boundary conditions.

This is likely to be the case with immediate behavior. The com-
mon properties are extremely constraining, especially when we
focus on the chronometric experiments typical of the psychological
laboratory, from which most of the regularities have come. The
defining characteristic of immediate response is that not many steps
occur between the externa! presentation of the situation (the
stimulus) and the resulting external action (the response). Several
additional conditions hold as well. First, the task is speeded. To
enforce this, experimenters make the instructions command and
the payoffs reward responding as fast as possible, Second, the per-

5. Actually, they differ significantly between the existing uniprocessor and multipro-
cessor implementations (Tambe, Kalp, Gupta, Forgy, Milnes, & Newell, 1988).

