294 # Unified Theories of Cognition

what assumption is made about the timing of a production cycle,
the time could be ~20 ms per item or ~40 ms per item (one ~20 ms
contribution from each production).

The point of this exercise is to observe that minor changes in
assumptions move the total time accounting in substantial ways
that have strong consequences for which model fits the data. In
assessing the form that detailed productions should take, one must
take all possible constraints into account. A major constraint is how
the system would ever acquire a particular set of productions.
Throughout this entire discussion of immediate-response tasks, we
have simply been writing down whatever problem spaces, oper-
ators, and now productions we thought appropriate to the task.
But Soar (and correspondingly the human) must acquire these ways
of behaving. Soar specifies the basic mechanisms by which behav-
ior is acquired—chunking while problem solving to do tasks—but it
will require much investigation to see how chunking actually affects
the explanations.

The appropriate research strategy is to delay commitment to the
details of the explanation until all the constraints can be brought to
bear, or at least enough of them so that no important degrees of
freedom remain. The evidence should be assembled from a large
and diverse variety of tasks, using the approximate analysis of the
functional-operation level. Then the total evidence should indicate
which detailed assumptions are correct. There could be as many as
~100 diverse experimental paradigms, each with several regu-
larities. These would provide the opportunity to treat the problem
of theory discovery and evaluation as a constraint-satisfaction task.
Such a path is open to a unified theory of cognition, in a way that it
is not open to microtheories of single paradigms. For the latter, the
refinement of theories must come primarily from more accurate and
fine-grained parametric data. That is of course crucial, and (as Fig-
ure 5-13 shows) the yield from elegant data can be very great, but
we need to bring together data from radically different tasks, whose
explanatory mechanisms may intersect, if we are to achieve any
stability in our theories. This enterprise should be a major yield of
unified theories.

5.9. Typing

Let us consider one final example. Typing served at the beginning
of the chapter as an example of multiple regularities, the implied

