Human Cognitive Architecture = 135

Figure 3-6 thus describes a system of components, each of which
operates at the ~~10 ms level. The system itself, then, operates
essentially one level up, namely at the ~~100 ms level. The figure
specifies hardly anything about the number of components or their
interconnection, or about what the upper bounds of the interactions
are before a result is produced. But enough is specified to answer
the question. No, deliberation cannot take place faster than at the

~~ 100 ms level.
The second question is whether deliberation could take longer

than ~~100 ms. As with the symbol-access level, local considera-
tions do not lead to a definitive answer on this. We must postpone
the question until we fill in the cognitive band sufficiently to get
cognitive behavior. Then we may get the constraint from the top
that will permit us to assert that elementary deliberations could not
be slower than ~~100 ms. The writing is on the wall, of course,
since ~~100 ms is only one factor of 10 from ~~1 sec, the time at
which cognitive behavior must be delivered,

The third question is about the plausibility of the elementary
deliberation taking ~~ 100 ms. One consequence of minimality of
the deliberation is that the action that is taken by the elementary
deliberation cannot be a composed operation—that is, cannot be
composed as part of the elementary deliberation. There is no way to
have deliberated over what parts to put together, because the sys-
tem is already down at the bottom level. it is the quickest level at
which deliberation occurs. The action could have been composed
prior to this decision to use it. Or this could be the decision to
compose the operation, starting at this point but not yet knowing
what operation it is that is to be composed (and thus be a different
decision from the one made when the action is completely known).
But the action itself cannot be composed of deliberative acts and
still remain as part of a single elementary deliberation.

Such a level can be characterized as automatic. There is no way
to get inside it to modulate it in any deliberate or controlled way. Of
course, it can be interrupted—terminated and broken open, so to
speak—but then other deliberate acts are involved in inspecting it
and perhaps reconstituting it. But it can’t be examined as it runs.
There isn’t any time for the examination to take place that could
arrive at any judgment about it, so to speak---for that would take
~~100 ms itself. Of course, an organization might be possible that
made the main-tine elementary deliberation longer so that a quick

