460 = Unified Theories of Cognition

development occurs in stages and providing the field with an entire
array of tasks by which to assess and analyze the growth
of cognitive capabilities (Piaget, 1977). Conservation tasks, set-
inclusion tasks, seriation tasks—on and on it goes. Each task is
performed with different degrees of success and in remarkably dif-
ferent ways by children of different ages, these differences marking
out stages of cognitive growth. The tasks are literally the woof
through which we trace the warp of cognitive development. There
are, of course, limits, even to genius and long life. Though Piaget
provided us with the notion of stages, he did not provide us with
any notion of the processes that take the child through the stages.
He certainly talked about such processes in highly general terms—
about assimilation, accommodation, and equilibration, to name the
big three. But to modern ears, even just a few years after Piaget has
died, it all sounds mostly like prolegomena, not like actual process
models of what is going on.

With the cognitive revolution came the information-processing
reformulation of Piagetian psychology. This stream of work accepts
the framework of tasks as developed by Piaget and his collaborators
and works within it. In an important sense it is neo-Piagetian, in
that it attempts to extend and refine what Piaget brought to develop-
ment rather than to replace it with a radically different approach.
After all, Piaget's theories are not antithetical to processing no-
tions, they simply attempt to make a structural analysis suffice.
Some of the major people involved in this information-processing
reformulation are Robbie Case, from the Ontario Institute (Case,
1985), Rochel Gelman, from the University of Pennsylvania (Gel-
man & Gallistel, 1978), and David Klahr (Klahr & Wallace, 1976)
and Bob Siegler (Siegler, 1986), from Carnegie Metlon. The charac-
teristic approach has been to study Piagetian tasks, for each of
which there now exists a substantial experimental and theoretical
history, and to produce detailed information-processing models of
the performance at each of the stages (an example is coming pres-
ently). Thus, if a child is at stage A and behaves thisaway, then here
is a detailed model of the processes that could produce this behav-
ior. If a child is at stage B and behaves thataway, then here is a
detailed model of the processes. And so on. Comparing the process-
ing at one stage to the next leads to a partial understanding of what
must happen for development to occur from stage to stage, but the
processes that accomplish the transition from stage to stage are

