Along the Frontiers = 483

briefer discussions. We are indeed along the frontier, and the ter-
rain ahead is unmapped.

With respect to the biological band, the frontier below, we have
already taken one absolutely important step in this book. We
pimed down the temporal scale of the information-processing
level—symbolic access at ~~10 ms, smallest deliberation at
~~100 ms, simple operators at ~~I sec (capable of providing the
fastest commerce with the external environment), and fastest goal
satisfaction at ~~10 sec. This mapping is independent of Soar. It
was generated from extremely general considerations of the nature
and time constants of neural technology, the nature of cognitive
behavior, and what we called the real-time constraint on cognition,
namely that behavior with the environment starts at ~~1 sec, only
two system levels above the neural technology. Soar fits this map-
ping (Figure 4-23). All other information-processing theories of cog-
nition must do so as weil.

Throughout the history of information-processing psychology, an
important element of its rhetoric has been that it is not anchored to
the structure of the brain. Sometimes this claim reflected an ag-
nostic viewpoint, adopted simply to provide theoretical breathing
room; sometimes it was more an argument for functional auton-
omy. It was, I think, an important stance and the right one for its
time—certainly, I participated in it as much as anyone. I think that
period is about over and Chapter 3 represents my contribution to its
demise. That demise, of course, does not result just from a single
analysis. Information processing can no longer be divorced from
brain structure because our knowledge of the biological band has
begun to take on a scientific solidity that breeds confidence about
the broad outlines of what is going on in the temporal space that
reaches from milliseconds to behavior. Fhose ~~3,000 behavioral
regularities—or at least the subset of them that press closest to the
temporal limits of immediate behavior—have also contributed to
the rejection of the old view. The demise seems evident to me. The
great gain—and independent of any immediate success in fashion-
ing unified theories—is that many additional constraints can be
brought to bear as we examine information processing more deeply.
But that puts it too abstractly. The great gain is that we finally
bridge the chasm between biology and psychology with a ten-lane
freeway.

One major expression of the increased connection between

Xa

