340 © Unified Theories of Cognition

arrive. Then Soar can fail the recall task or it can set up the task of
guessing on other grounds. Second, a single candidate that fits ar-
rives. Then Soar can extract the response part as the response.
Third, multiple candidates arrive. But now the rejection chunks
that have been learned also fire immediately and discriminate the
true recollection from all the other distractor items that show up.
This may be enough to let the single candidate emerge, and then
this is just like the unique case above. Alternatively, there could
still be a residual set, smaller than the original. Soar will then be
faced with a tie impasse between these candidate items. It could
just guess (now a more narrowly based guess), or it could seek
some other knowledge to help it discriminate.

This scheme applies directly to the original paired-associates
task, (BAJ-GID). The stimulus is taken as a source of cues, and the
whole structure is retrieved, with the Tesponse then being extracted
out. At retrieval time the following sequeiice occurs: BAJ > B,J >
(BAJ GID) > GID. This scheme works and it provides a solution to
the data-chunking problem.

Let us return from Soar’s trenches and see what has been
achieved. We found a genuine difficulty in functional capability,
which we dubbed the data-chunking problem. We stayed with the
architecture and found an interesting technical solution. This solu-
tion now works as advertised (Rosenbloom, Laird, & Newell, 1987,
1988b). The way is now clear for Soar to learn declarative data, at
least in situations analogous to the recognition and recall tasks of
the verbal-learning literature. Given that Soar is our candidate
unified theory of cognition, we should expect that this solution will
now exhibit many of the phenomena that arise in the human verbal-
learning literature. These explorations have not yet been carrried to
the point of detailed contact with experimental results on human
memory. But a number of interesting properties can still be noted.

First, we have been led to a reconstructive view of declarative
memory. The architecture has told us that when an item is recalled
it is reconstructed. We didn’t start out with any notion of recon-
struction. In fact, we first looked for guessing strategies as genera-
tors. Reconstruction emerged as a technical solution for the gen-
eration of candidates routinely and efficiently. The case for
reconstructive memory has a long history in psychology, of which
Bartlett's Remembering (1932) is perhaps the best known. Although
we have not run examples to show it, it should be clear from the

