Unified Theories of Cognition # 21

- entist can deal with very many of these constraints. Perforce, to
; look at some implies that others must be abandoned. Like-minded
: investigators cluster together to make subfields, and these tend
to differentiate along exactly such lines. I am no different from
others—lI ignore many of the constraints because I have no way of
taking them into account. I demote linguistics in Figure 1-5 not
because linguistics is unimportant but because I am not a linguist. It
is even rumored that some linguists do the same with cognition.

Developing a unified theory of cognition is a move in the direc-
tion of taking more constraints into account. From one point of
view, that will no doubt increase the difficulty and the puzzlement.
From the point of view of constructing a theory, however, what is
needed is more constraint rather than less. The issue is how to
discover where each of the constraints in the figure has an impact
on the nature of mind. With more aspects of cognition within the
pale, there is more opportunity to find those points of impact and
then to propagate the constraint from the place where its bite is
clear to other places where its role has not been heretofore sus-
pected or calculated.

We have not yet completed the list of advantages for unified
theories of cognition (Figure 1-6). Each theory will increase the rate
of cumulation. A unified theory becomes a repository of knowledge
that fits together. Even if the unified theory is highly approximate, it
| plays a mnemonic role, helping us to remember all the empirical
results and the low-level regularities. Once the empirical results are
‘ poured into a common theoretical scheme, comparison is forced

and the data get sorted out. Anomalies don’t go away, of course,
but they do get identified and clarified.

A unified theory would result in great increases in identifiability.
| There exists within psychology a minor research theme that focuses
’ on establishing what can be ignored because it is beyond the pale of

determination. It is not possible to tell whether a process is serial or
parallel (Townsend, 1974). It is not possible to tell what kind of a
representation people are using (Anderson, 1978). Showing that
a theory implies universal computation destroys its usefulness,
because that makes anything possible (Peters & Ritchie, 1973).
John Anderson has gone so far as to believe that difficulties of
identifiability make all models of cognitive mechanisms merely no-
tations (Anderson, 1989). It is useful to have the technical results
behind these statements, for the analyses are often quite penetrat-

