Symbolic Processing for Intelligence » 197

of productions called encoding productions (E-productions) and an-
other set called decoding productions (D-productions). These pro-
ductions are identical in form and structure to the productions of
central cognition (which can be called C-productions where
needed). They differ in being entirely free of the goal context stack.
For them there is no such thing as the decision cycle, running to
quiescence, or impasses—they fire at will. In contradistinction,
cognitive productions are tied to the goal context stack by the con-
nectivity constraint. Each condition must either match a goal-
context element or must match an element that links (perhaps
through an explicit chain) to a goal-context element. Encoding and
decoding productions are distinguished from each other only by the
functions they perform.

On the input side, as elements arrive autonomously from the
perceptual system, the encoding productions provide what can be
termed perceptual parsing, putting the elements into a form to be
considered by central cognition. Likewise on the output side, the
decoding productions provide the expansion and translation of
the motor commands produced by the cognitive system into the
form used by the motor system. The motor system itself may pro-
vide elements back into the working memory, indicating the pro-
cesses the motor system is undergoing as commands emerge into
action. Such proprioceptive elements can themselves undergo per-
ceptual parsing prior to consideration by cognition.

All this activity is not under control—these productions recog-
nize and execute at will, concurrently with each other and con-
currently with central cognition. Control is exercised by central
cognition, which can now be seen to consist of just the decision
apparatus, from which flows the decision cycle, impasses, the goal
context stack, and the problem-space organization. Since there is
not only the autonomous entry of elements into the working mem-
ory, but also a flurry of activity with the encoding and decoding
productions, it can be seen that central cognition operates essen-
tially as a form of supervisory control.

Central cognition is indeed serial—that is what the decision
mechanism enforces—and so it can consider only some of what
goes on in the working memory. Indeed, the functional requirement
of the encoding productions is to shape up new arrivals so that the
limited efforts of central cognition are well spent. In terms of the
issue of sudden death mentioned above, motor actions take time to

