Foundations of Cognitive Science # 107

A final lesson can be taken from Figure 2-19. It is common in Al
and cognitive science to talk about human intelligence and the intel-
ligence of systems like Hitech in contrasting terms. Hitech is a
brute-force searcher and it operates in an ‘“‘entirely different way
from human intelligence.’’ Figure 2-19 urges otherwise. Certainly,
different types of intelligent systems occupy different regions in the
preparation-deliberation space, but systems like Hitech are to be
analyzed in the same way as expert systems and humans are. They
occupy different regions, but the analysis is the same. Hitech gets
better only by the addition of knowledge, just as do other systems.
Thus, the scientific objective in AI is to understand the entire space
and the way systems in it relate to each other. Entire regions of this
space are still unexplored.

The situation portrayed in Figure 2-19 is reminiscent of the situa-
tion in genetics. The analogy between them may be instructive,
even though it is undoubtedly imperfect. In population biology,
different evolutionary strategies for a species can be distinguished
(Wilson, 1975). Two extreme strategies are the r-strategy and the K-
strategy.°4 The r-strategy is to have lots of progeny and to spend as
little energy on them as possibie. Many progeny will die, but the
species overpowers with numbers. The K-strategy is to have few
progeny but to spend as much energy on each one as possible. This
is the strategy of the big carnivores and of humans. Those two
strategies define a space in which to understand the evolutionary
possibilities. Some issues in population genetics become clearer
when these different strategic possibilities are kept in mind. Simi-
larly, the choice between high-knowledge and high-search strate-
gies, which define the preparation-deliberation space, is an impor-
tant choice for a species of intelligent systems.

2.10, Summary

This chapter has been a tour of the key terms that Hie at the founda-
tion of cognitive science. Iterating through these concepts seems a
reasonable way to lay the foundations for the rest of the book.
Figures 2-21 and 2-22 provide a summary that can serve as a ready
reference when the concepts reappear in Jater chapters. Figure 2-21

24. The names come from the constants in the logistic equation used in quantitative
population models.

poy

