370 » Unified Theories of Cognition

Knowledge acquisition operators: main task space

: PC Process a cofumn
: AV Assign a digit to a letter
i GN Generate the acceptable digits for a letter
! To Test if an assignment is possible
1 Attentional focus operators: find-operator subspace
FC Find a column
FL Find a letter to attend to
GNC Generate the columns
FA Find the antecedent of an expression
j FP. Find the production that produced an expression
: Goal operators: main space (new in Soar)
i GET Letters, carry, expression
! CHECK Expression, column
Control attributes on expressions in a siate
i new
contradiction
unclear
unknown

Figure 7-3. Soar on cryptarithmetic (following Newell & Simon, 1972).

claim. The third one, GN, generates the acceptable assignments tor
a given letter. Every letter is hedged round with multiple con-
straints because of its participation in various columns of the sum.
Hence at any point it will be able to take on only a subset of the full
set of digits (0, 1, ... , 9). GN generates this set. The fourth and
final operator, TD, tests whether an assignment of a digit to a letter
is permitted, given the values that are excluded by assignments of
digits to other letters. A strong assertion about problem spaces is
being made here—throughout the 30-minute problem-solving pe-
riod, these and only these operators are being performed to gain
new knowledge about the task.

Other operators are also required, however; they can be thought
of as focusing operators. Their necessity stems from the need to
instantiate the knowledge-gaining operators. These four operators
are abstract. PC does not specify what column it is to apply to. AV
does not specify what variable is to be assigned a value or what
value it is to be assigned. GN does not specify what letter is to have
its values generated. TD does not specify what assignment (a letter
and a digit) is to be tested. Thus, additional operators are required
that operate in a space of attentional foci—a letter, a column, a

