Along the Frontiers » 503

4. Have many unified theories of cognition
+ Unification cannot be forced
* Theories can even be quite simitar, such as Act* and Soar
+ Exploring the architecture requires owning it

2. Develop consortia and communities for working with a unified
theory of cognition
* Unified theories of cognition require many person-years

3. Be synthetic
+ Incorporate (nat replace} local theories

4. Modify unified theories of cognition, even in apparently radical ways
+ Coupling between parts is loose (but nonzero}

5. Create data bases of results and adopt a benchmark philosophy
+ Each new version must run on the benchmarks

6. Make models easy to use, easy to make inferences from

7. Acquire one or more application domains to provide support

Figure 8-12. Recommendations for the development
of unified theories of cognition.

8.6. How to Move toward Unified Theories of Cognition

We have finished our tour of the frontier, although we have hardly
traveled it all. The remaining questions are not ones of science, but
ones of strategy. How are we to evolve unified theories of cogni-
tion? How are we to get from here, where I have claimed they are in
prospect, to there, where we will all be working within their firm
and friendly confines? What we need are recommendations, and I
record mine in Figure 8-12.

(1) There should be many unified theories of cognition—at least
for a while. I’ve reiterated this theme many times throughout the
book, It is worth doing so once more. You cannot force unification.
We are a field not yet unified and we do not know what unification
feels like. Everyone is king, or at least can think it so, as long as no
one is. Any attempt to settle on a unified theory by any means other
than open competition in the marketplace of ideas—to use the
cliché—will only end in squabbling. If this book is seen simply as a
literary device for my making the case for Soar, then it will surely
meet cynical dismissal. { get my day in the sun, courtesy of the
Harvard Psychology Department. Other days belong to others,
from other petty principalities. I am, of course, intrigued by Soar; I

