270 = Unified Theories of Cognition

take characteristic times that transcend the unique experimental
situation, perhaps as functions of as yet undetermined aspects of
situations plus a stochastic component. Thus, psychology is sensi-
tive to estimates of parameters turning out to be approximately
constant. For instance, the Posner naming task (Posner, 1978) pre-
sents a person with a pair of letters and asks whether they are the
same. Comparing the judgment time for the same percept [a a]
versus the same letter {a A} (against foils such as [a 4] or [a B))
shows that it takes ~80 ms to retrieve the letter code given the
percept. Furthermore, this value of ~80 ms is quite robust and has
been obtained in many experimental variations. Its invariance has
contributed much to the importance of this paradigm. On the other
hand, confidence in factor analysis of intelligence tests seriously
eroded because the factors never turned out to be independent
enough of the specific tests—so it was difficult to believe in the
reality of underlying factors that the factor analyses were just re-
vealing from different angles.

A unified theory of cognition necessarily takes a strong position
with respect to developing constants that can be used in all situa-
tions. A unified theory claims to present the mechanisms of cogni-
tion that operate in all tasks. For Soar, these are the mechanisms of
the recognition memory, the decision procedure, the chunker, and
the modules for perception and motor behavior. The timing and
reliability constants associated with these mechanisms might be
functions of various characteristics of the cognitive architecture
and might be stochastic. Depending on the exact situation they
would then be constant functions or constant parameters of distri-
butions, but they would still be constants over all situations. To use
Pylyshyn's term, these constants are not penetratable by the con-
tent of each task. Of course, the need for constants does not elimi-
nate the variability in nature that led to the general acceptance of
experiment-bound constants.

Nevertheless, a major enterprise for a unified theory of cognition
will be to develop these constants. One approach is to design exper-
iments that attempt to measure a particular constant in as pure a
form as possible. This is analogous to doing experiments to mea-
sure the speed of light. A second approach is to assemble the anal-
yses of a large diversity of tasks involving all the various constants
in different combinations. On the whole, it is not possible to find
pure experiments, and several constants enter into the prediction of
