470 « Unified Theories of Cognition

Of the several alternatives to approach this problem, the natural
one for Soar is the third alternative, upstream discrimination. It is
the natural path because it does not disturb the architecture, Both
excision and production strengths would introduce major perturba-
tions to the architecture. Excision, in particular, seems actually
wrong for Soar, in which one of the justifications for chunking is
that it replaces and shortcuts what is already there. Excision, by
removing what was already there (which are chunks built from
earlier activity) deranges this plan. Also, chunks are created within
a context where enough is known about conditions and actions to
construct it. None of that knowledge is available when it comes to
excising the production, so it does not seem a very safe context for
such action.

8.2.3. Avoiding Bad Structure by Discrimination

We wish to explore the discrimination path to error recovery to see
how it can be made to work. As it turns out, it leads to some
interesting mechanisms. The key is to exploit the higher-level or-
ganization that problem spaces impose on activity, namely, that
almost all activity, including bad learning, is encased in a specific
problem space. That is, the productions that generate the activity,
whether operators or search control, are conditional on the problem
space. Hence if new problem spaces can be created from contami-
nated ones so that only their good activity is saved, then the bad
activity can be left behind. This solves the problem of discriminat-
ing the good from the bad. The problem of doing the discrimination
upstream is solved because problem spaces are selected, just as are
operators and states. Thus if the new, clean problem space is se-
lected in preference to the old, contaminated one, the discrimina-
tion has been made once and for all. There is of course a cost to this
arrangement—the preferences that select the right problem
space—but this is a fixed, minuscule cost.

There is actually quite a bit more to the solution than the key idea
sketched above. Figure 8-7 provides a bird's-eye view of the pro-
cessing. Soar wanders around in a large number of distinct problem
spaces, the interesting aspects of which pertain to what functions
these spaces serve and how they relate to each other. It is too
microscopic a view to look at Soar’s behavior at the grain size of
the production, the decision cycle, or even the operator, Now the

