98 = Unified Theories of Cognition

ods, built up as further specifications on generate and test. Means-
ends analysis, hill climbing, progressive deepening, constraint
propagation—all are search methods of one kind or another. And
all build on generate and test.

Search leads to the view that an intelligent agent is always operat-
ing within a problem space (Figure 2-16). This is the space the agent
has created within which to search for the solution to whatever
problem it is currently attending. It is the agent’s attempt to bound
the problem so it can be worked on. Thus, the agent adopts some
problem space in which to solve a problem. The agent is then
located at some current state in the space. There is available a set of
operators for finding new situations. For instance, in the blocks
world, the blocks are in some initial configuration on the table and
the agent can move any block that is clear on top. Task attainment
is formulated as reaching a recognizable desirable state (there may
be many such desirable states). The search through the space can
be made in any fashion, as long as only operators of the space are
applied (and each operator may have its own conditions of admis-
sibility).

Solving problems is not just a random search in the space. The
space is a frame within which the agent brings knowledge to bear to
search for the desired object. If the agent has enough knowledge, it
need not search at all. It simply moves through the space directly to
the solution. In any event, large or small, there is some body of
knowledge available to control the search and implement the
operators in the problem space.

There are two separate searches going on in intelligence. One is
problem search, which is the search of the problem space just de-
scribed. The other is knowledge search, which is the search in the

‘ memory of the system for the knowledge to guide the problem
search. This search for knowledge is not always required. Given a
special-purpose intelligent system that works on only one task with
a general search algorithm (say branch and bound), then only a little
knowledge has to be brought to bear (the evaluation function and
the logic of branch and bound), and it is used at every state in the
space. The procedure can be built right into the structure of the
system, so that only problem search occurs. On the other hand,
agents that work on a wide range of tasks—say, humans—have
large bodies of knowledge. When a new task arises, that body of
knowtedge must be searched for knowledge that is relevant to the

la
