32 = Unitied Theories of Cognition

PO. Recognize-Act Cycle of the Cognitive Processor. On each cycle of
the Cognitive Processor, the contents of Working Memory initiate
actions associatively linked to them in Long-Term Memory; these
actions in turn modify the contents of Warking Memory.

P1. Variable Perceptual Processor Rate Principle. The Perceptual Pro-
cessor cycle time 1, varies inversely with stimulus intensity.

P2. Encoding Specificity Principle. Specific encoding operations per-
formed on what is perceived determine what is stored, and what is
stored determines what retrieval cues are effective in providing ac-
cess to what is stored.

P3. Discrimination Principte. The difficulty of memory retrieval is deter-
mined by the candidates that exist in the memory, relative to the
retrieval clues.

P4. Variable Cognitive Processor Rate Principle. The Cognitive Pro-
cessor cycle time 7, is shorter when greater effort is induced by in-
creased task demands or information toads; it also diminishes with
practice.

PS. Fitts’ Law. The time 7,0; to move the hand to a target of size S$
which lies a distance D away is given by:

Taos = Im logalD/S + .8},

where /y = 100 [70-120] ms/bit.
P6. Power Law of Practice. The time 7 to perform a task on the nth trial
follows a power law:

T, = Tyn7*,

where a = .4 [.2~.6].
Figure 1-10. The Model Human Processor (MHP) operating principles.

becomes more uncertain, at least at the level of immediate re-
sponses, is not usually stated as a general Principle (as are some of
the others); but there is a very wide range of experimental situa-
tions that exhibit the property, such as Hick’s law (Hick, 1952),
The MHP was an attempt to synthesize, from the state of psycho-
logical understanding circa 1980, a model of the human that was
relevant to interaction at the computer terminal or workstation. We
attempted to refine and make quantitative the standard information-
processing block diagram, so that it would be possible both to think
about what the human was doing when operating at the interface
and to do simple computations to predict whether one task would

