246 = Unified Theories of Cognition

natural and simple, given the architecture, can be relied upon as a
guide—it will very often be the way things are. The abstracted
architectures discussed above clearly capture some of what is sim-
ple and some of what remains apparent the longest as the duration
of behavior increases, but other details and how the parts fit to-
gether are also important. Thus, the architecture has a heuristic
impact further up the temporal scale than might be imagined from
the actual detailed processes.

In sum, the major scientific function of immediate-response data
is to identify the architecture, which will set the terms for a unified
theory of cognition——and the syntax as well.

5.2. Methodological Preliminaries

Before we can take up specific cases, we need to consider some
preliminaries to set the stage, especially since we are using Soar to
illuminate the situation for unified theories of cognition. How
should we expect to use Soar as a theory at the immediate-response
level? What are the varieties of explanations and predictions it
should offer? How complete and well specified should such a the-

ory be?

5.2.1. How to View Using Soar as a Theory

Some things are obvious. Taking Soar seriously as a theory of
cognition means it should explain and predict cognitive regularities,
such as the ones just enumerated for typing, and it should reveal
how they are related to other regularities and on what aspects of
human cognition they rest. Taking Soar seriously as a unified the-
ory means that it should explain and predict the empirical regu-
larities from all the other domains of immediate behavior. But other
things are not quite so obvious. What else is implied by Soar being a
unified theory? By being cast as an architecture? Be being embed-
ded in a running computer system? A clear view of these implica-
tions helps us to see how to apply Soar in speciftc cases.

Soar should explain and predict, but it should not necessarily
offer novel explanations—explanations that no psychologist has
ever thought of. Just the opposite. The objective in a unified theory
is synthesis. Soar should incorporate what we now understand
most solidly and fully about human cognition. In addition to the
empirical regularities, there are many microtheories of limited task
