immediate Behavior » 289

Analysis of varied-set paradigm

Items are attached to the current state as they arrive

They are represented in identical fashion

A single state moves through time during the arrival of items

A probe enables productions that instantiate each item

The processing is simple enough to occur within elaboration phase
There is no commitment to whether the process is search, assembly,
activation...

Conclusions

1, Linear, because instantiations ara not concurrent

2. Fast, because happens at production rate

3. Parallel slopes, because runs to quiescence, hence exhaustive
4. No serial position effects, because runs to quiescence

5. Unaware, because happens within a decision cycle

Figure 5-15. Qualitative analysis of the basic Sternberg task.

proliferated until almost any type of modet can be generated (Town-
send & Ashby, 1983). An abundance of models is characteristic of
psychological data in the chronometric area. If attention is limited
to a few quantitative regularities, even if they are fine-grained
parametric curves, many technically distinct quantitative theories
can be invented to explain them. (Remember the collection of ran-
dom-walk models for dealing with same-different judgments in
Chapter 1.) On the other hand, no one that I know of has a theory
that explains all 32 regularities, much less the 50 or more that could
probably be tracked down. The theories put forth so far explain 2 or
3 regularities, maybe occasionally 6 or 7 regularities, but the rest
are never attended to. Soar will not provide a complete sweep
either—it is only an exemplar—but the long list stands as a re-
minder of the sources of constraint that exist for unified theories.

Let us consider how Soar provides a qualitative explanation of
the basic Sternberg phenomena (Figure 5-15). Ultimately, of
course, Soar must do better than this. Just as with the functional-
operation level of analysis, however, it is interesting to see Soar
used in a qualitative way. At the top of the figure is the analysis of
how the task is accomplished, at the bottom the derivation of some
of the major regularities of the paradigm.

We consider the variable-set paradigm, in which the targets are
received in sequence just before the probe, Soar’s attention will be
focused on the place of receipt of the target items. As each item
arrives, it passes through a P-E-C sequence of operations and be-

