Along the Frontiers = 493

(though it can hardly be argued conclusively from the stance of this
book), then theorizing at the social level will always be a mixed
affair. Then models of the individual as intelligent agents interacting
with such real worlds would seem essential.

This does not mean that the individual in the social situation is
just the isolated cognitive agent that we have been sketching out. It
is an important task to sort out the different kinds of mechanisms or
ingredients that need to be incorporated into a model of the individ-
ual human agent within a social context.’? Think of an agent making
a response in a social situation. What characteristics of the agent
Must we consider when we try to predict or explain his or her
response? There are at least five types of ingredients that seem
worth distinguishing (see Figure 8-9). They are not alternative char-
acteristics; each one is an addition to the ones before it. In other
words, the sequence advances from minimal assumptions for a so-
cial agent to more inclusive assumptions.

[N]. The response may be predictable simply on the basis of the
agent being intendedly rational in terms of the nonsocial aspects of
the situation—its task structure. This type of prediction is what
Soar provides—think of the blocks world or designing algorithms.
This basic model of a rational agent provides more than one might
think. Besides the mechanisms of goal pursuit, such as goals, prob-
lem spaces, and impasses, Soar includes mechanisms for being in-
terrupted and for learning. If this is all there is to social behavior,
Soar in its present form would be a good initial approximation.

(M]. A social situation, of course, includes other agents, who
have goals and knowledge and take actions in pursuit of their goals
in the light of their knowledge, themselves taking into account that
other agents know about them and consider them goal oriented,
The situation becomes complicated in what seems to be an essen-
tially social way. The response is still that of an intendedly rational
agent, but the task environment is now quite different from that of.
the blocks world. We can refer to it as a multiagent situation. The
knowledge that each agent has is the knowledge of the {nonsocial)
task plus the knowledge of the other agents plus some knowledge of
their goals and knowledge. This is just the situation for which game
theory was created (with the type-{N] situation being the one-

19. This is work in progress with Kathleen Carley.

x

sveT

&
ie

Sas gag NT
