504 Unified Theories of Cognition

am even in favor of it. After all, if not I (and my co-creators), who
else should be? But that is not the point.

Again, there must be many unified theories. They can even be
quite similar, like Act* and Soar, which have an immense commu-
nality in their base. The case of Act* and Soar makes clear one
important reason why there must be many unified theories. Anyone
who wants to work with architectures must contro! one. He or she
must be free to reformulate it. Ultimately, when a single unified
theory of cognition takes its place as the theory of cognition, and its
assimilation and acceptance is behind us, then architectural theo-
rists will work differentially off of the base theory. And the rest of
us can go about our business of using and developing the base
theory~-of working on puzzles within the paradigm, to use the
Kuhnian way of speaking. But at the moment there is no accepted
base theory with anything like the required coherence and cover-
age. 2
(2) We shoud develop consortia—substantial collections of cog-
nitive scientists who are committed to putting together a particular
unified theory. Unified theories of cognition are not the product of a
single person. They take a lot of work. Remember all those
~~3,000 regularities! There is no critical subset of 7 + 2 regu-
larities, the rest of which can be ignored. Architectures are complex
and somewhat loosely coupled, and so it takes a lot of regularities
to hammer one into shape. This requires a lot of people engaging in
a lot of work, more so than can be provided by any isolated, indi-
vidual investigator. It may seem an odd way to express it, but
hoping for a Newton Inc. to arrive seems a much better bet for
cognitive science than hoping for a Newton. It should be evident,
however, that consortia are cooperative efforts among free-
standing scientists, so coordination is implied, not subordination.
Even so, such team efforts would imply a shift of style for many
cognitive psychologists.

The Soar effort provides an illustration of the scale and style that
seems to me necessary. This effort is better viewed as a community
than as a consortium. Originally (circa 1983) there was a typical
informal research project at CMU consisting of two graduate stu-
dents and a professor (John Laird, Paul Rosenbloom, and Allen
Newell). This has grown into a geographically distributed project,
as the investigators dispersed to separate institutions—the Univer-
sity of Michigan (John Laird), the University of Southern California

