Human Cognitive Architecture « 144

consequently they must have been around previously, and hence
were not constructed for the to-be-produced response. This is a
limitation on the adaptability of the system within 1 sec.

We need to ask our three questions explicitly, although the an-
swers are already mostly apparent. Could one compose simple op-
erations faster than ~~! sec? The answer is no, because we have
built up minimal level upon minimal level. There is no need to
reiterate why there is no time to pack ail the action at this level into
less time. Could the composition of simple operations take longer
than ~~1 sec? The answer is now a definite no, because we have
reached the level at which we know cognitive operations must be
available. Having reached this point, of course, we can finally settle
the questions of whether the lower levels could themselves have
been located at a higher level. They could not, because it would
have pushed the level of simple operations higher than ~~! sec,
namely to ~~ 10 sec or above. And that would contravene the need
to get the level of simple composed operations within ~~! sec,

Finally, what of the plausibility of simple operations at this level?
This involves an assessment of whether the cognitive actions that
take place within ~~1 sec can be composed of simple operations.
The most obvious observation concems preparation and practice.
It is a commonplace, especially of the psychological laboratory,
that if a person is to give immediate speeded reactions in a task,
then there must be adequate Preparation and practice. The re-
Sponses must be known and simple (press a button, vocalize a
word) and if they are not, they must become so. Likewise the
connection of the response with the eliciting situation (the stimulus)
must be clear to the subject. If these conditions are not met, the
response wilt take substantial time.

3.9. The First Level of Composed Operations

To move to general cognition is to move to general problem spaces
where the operations themselves are composed to deal with the
task. Each operator is produced by a system at the ~~] sec level,
and, as Figure 3-9 shows, this takes us to the ~~ 10 sec tevel. There
is no available term for this level, Card, Moran, and Newell (1983)
used anit task to refer to the tasks skilled users defined for them-
selves in human-computer interaction, which take from ~5 to ~30
sec.

