Memory, Learning, and Skill = 345

of data chunking. The picture that emerges is of a cognitive system
that develops particular modes of behavior for particular task do-
mains. Far from being a system that is uniform at the level of
behavior, it is one that is diverse. Far from being a system that has a
single learning mechanism (chunking), Soar has many different
learning mechanisms. This should not be surprising, for a lesson of
all computational systems is that diversity emerges out of unity.

6.5. Skill Acquisition

Let us turn to the acquisition of skill, Currently the received taxon-
omy of psychology places procedural memory (skill or know-how)
in a major category of its own, separate from episodic memory and
semantic memory. In Soar, of course, all types of (long-term) mem-
ory are built up from chunking, which is basically procedural
(though at the Jevel of a content-addressed memory). One does not
ask how Soar does skill acquisition per se—that comes with the
territory, so to speak—but rather how Soar attains the other kinds
of memory. That is what the investigation of data chunking has
been all about, as well as the earlier discussion of episodic and
semantic memory.

The human acquisition of skill exhibits many regularities. We
could compile a list of thirty or forty regularities, just as we did for
transcription typing or item recognition. Rather than give such a
list, Figure 6-16 just shows the sorts of regularities we might expect,
The first sort concerns the power law of practice, with which we've
already become familiar. The main issues are its form (a power law)
and its ubiquity. But there is also the question of what absolute
rates of learning can be expected and what determines the asymp-
totes. The second sort of regularity concerns transfer effects. We
have seen lots of transfer effects in the various Soar examples, but
the question is what transfers in human skill. One broad regularity
is that learning is in general highly specific, but if matters are ar-
ranged correctly there can be substantial transfer. A third sort con-
cems factors and regimes that affect the rate of learning. One classi-
cal result concerns the positive effect of immediate feedback of
knowledge of results. Another robust generality is that spaced prac-
tice is more effective than massed practice. Regimes can affect
transfer as well as rates and, if anything, transfer is more important.

The only regularity we'll discuss is the power law of practice,

2
