Immediate Behavior = 237

curs because of adaptive behavior, which to the extent it is success-
ful necessarily operates to obscure the internal mechanisms by
making behavior exclusively a function of what the system’s goals
depend upon, namely, the external environment.

Not only are the particulars of immediate behavior important,
psychology has learned to find regularities at this level. Literally
thousands of regularities have been discovered, verified, and now
reside in the archival literature. My best estimate is ~~3,000, that
is, anywhere from a thousand to ten thousand. This way of talking
about it may strike experimental psychologists as somewhat odd.
We normally think of scientific regularities as unique discoveries, to
be discussed one by one. We do not think of them as being garnered
by the bushel basket and served up a dozen at a time, for sixpence.

Yet it is true that there are thousands of healthy, robust regu-
larities of immediate behavior. Almost all are quantitative, many
are parametric with external task variables. Many are so clean they
take your breath away, like Fitts’ law (Figure: {-1) and the power
law of practice (Figure 1-3), Every good experimentalist should
ponder that finding one more regularity is simply adding one to this
dazzling field of ~~3,000. It is unlikely that the next regularity will
sparkle and shine in a different way from the regularities already in
the archives—a diamond to the zircons of the past. The next regu-
larity will not be different in kind. Recency does not add scientific
luminance, or at least should not. Each new regularity will become
one with its fellows, and they all will sparkle, each according to its
individual light in revealing facets of our cognitive nature.

The great array of regularities has not yet been integrated into
any general theoretical structure. Of course we need more data, and
especially more regularities. But if we ask whether new energy
should go to building integrated theories to bind these regularities
together, or go to finding one more regularity to add to the field,
then the issue is worth pondering. Indeed, this book constitutes an
extended argument for shifting the energy of psychology to theory
building. It goes without saying that Soar must be a theory that
applies to these regularities.

Of course, I shouldn’t simply assert that ~~3,000 regularities
exist without citing evidence. On the other hand, it wouldn't be
possible to assert each of the ~~3,000 regularities separately, one
by one. It is possible to illustrate. Consider transcription typing
(hereafter just typing)—looking at a text manuscript and producing

