336 = Unified Theories of Cognition

(recognition being the production of an internal name for the com-
ponent item). Wherever a component is not recognized, Soar will
recurse and build up a recognition of the subcomponent. The recur-
sion happens because Soar gets an impasse when it cannot recog-
nize a component, at which point it passes into a subgoal for which
it evokes the problem space to recognize the substructure. When
Soar gets finished with alt this, it has finally tecognized all the
components. Then it can assign a new name (for example, *n{37*)
to the new structure that is made up of recognizable parts. When
Soar succeeds and terminates this effort, a chunk will be created.
The conditions of the chunk are the names of the components in the
structured arrangement, and the action of the chunk is the newly
assigned name. Thus, ona test trial, if the same item artives, which
is to say, an item consistent with this arrangement of components,
each recognized as an already presented item, then this chunk will
fire and the assigned name will be put in working memory, signaling
that the total item is recognized. Thus a tecognizer has now been
built. The easiest part of the total recall task has been accom-
plished.

The second step, shown in Figure 6-13, is the construction job.
This requires a free-recall task that is not quite the usual task posed
in psychological research, for it is genuinely context free. The rec-
ognition task, on the other hand, is identical to the psychologist's
recognition task—was this just-presented item presented earlier? In
this new free-recaill task, as we'll call it, there is a study trial, where
an item is presented to be learned for recall later. On the test trial
the person is to recall all items ever presented. This is a free recall
with no limit on the context from which one should do the recall, Its
purpose, of course, is to learn to construct the item from nothing,
so that it is not dependent on some particular contextual features,
which would limit the ability to evoke the generator at some future
time.

The situation at the study trial is a presented item and the need to
learn to recall it later. The self-posed task is to do the future task.
Soar goes into a recall problem space, which has a single recall
operator. This space contains aif the known items, Each item is an
instantiation of the recall operator. Thus, when in this space all
these instantiations are proposed as the actual operator to be se-
lected. Given the task of recall what you know, items literally rain
down in this space.

