Human Cognitive Architecture = 127

In any event, at the moment there is no way to go down and do
more than peek here and there. So, we can think of a local circuit as
computing an essentially arbitrary function of many inputs and out-
puts, with substantial provisions for bias and parameterization. But
there is much evidence that local circuits are functionally coherent,
and not a collection of independent, diverse computational pro-
cesses (not like a miniature arbitrarily programmable microcom-
puter).”

Neural circuits are a distinct level. The medium is a continuous
quantity, often called activation, which travels between parts of the
circuit and between circuits. Activation is excitatory or inhibitory;
it is summed and thresholded and otherwise transformed in the
focal circuits. Activation is some short-time statistical average of
the neural pulses. The neural networks are often drawn as if the
components are individual neurons, but in fact they actually are
dealt with as if there were neural populations and the medium is
almost always dealt with as if it consisted of continuous signals and
not neural pulses.

The important fact for us is that the characteristic operation time
of neural circuits is ~~10 ms. More precisely, ~~10 ms is the
minimum time. Certainly, neural circuits can take longer to oper-
ate, ~~100 ms or even longer. However, we are concerned mostly
with the minimum time. There are several different features of
neural circuits, all of which support this general conclusion.

The most basic consideration is simply that of system levels.
Neural circuits are built up out of neurons. Thus they will be essen-
tially an order of magnitude slower than neurons, at best. If neurons
are ~~1 ms devices, then neural circuits will be ~~ 10 ms devices.
There is no way to put a collection of neurons together and get them
to operate in the ~~I ms range.

7. Lam putting emphasis on temporal relations and ignoring what might be concluded
from spatial considerations. Spatially, there are also multiple levels. The distributed
networks with local circuits as components are up a level from the local circuits referred
to here, The local circuits might conceivably be a single tevel. To be so, they would need
to be some sort of substantial iterative construction, since 5 x 10* elements seems much
too big for a single circuit (Simon's hierarchical argument again). One possibility is a
factor of 10 for informational capacity, a factor of 10 for statistics, and a factor of 10-100
for an array that covers a field of some sort (such as a sensory fiefd). This breakdown
provides a total reduction factor of {0° to 10* and brings down 5 x (0*to $-50. But there
is certainly the possibility for another system level within the I-mm cube, with connec-
tivity via graded potentials. Such an additional level would not accord well with the
temporal analysis, which would produce an interesting (and informative) situation.

