46 = Unified Theories of Cognition

Let X observe a table of stacked blocks
We say “X knows that A is on top of BY A
Anonabserver Y asks X whether B is clear on top B c

We say (predict) "X will tell ¥ that B is not clear"

Figure 2-2. The simple blocks world.

X knows, or some other aspect of the situation that could prevent
the action. Still, this is a useful scheme to predict a system's be-
havior.

The analysis of knowledge has a long philosophical history, and
indeed constitutes the standard subarea of epistemology. It has a
continuation within cognitive science (Goldman, 1986). That analy-
sis takes knowledge as something sui generis—something special
with special issues about what it means for a system to have knowl-
edge and especially what it means for knowledge to be certain,
What I claim cognitive science needs, instead, is a concept of
knowledge that is used simply to describe and predict the response
functions of a system. There can be, of course, a different response
function for every goal and every body of knowledge, but the lit-
tle situation with the blocks is entirely paradigmatic of our use of
the concept. It is a way of characterizing a system such that we
can predict (with varying degrees of success) the behavior of the
system.

Thus, to treat something as having knowledge is to treat it as a
system of a certain kind. We always describe systems in some way,
if we are to deal with them at all. Some systems we describe in one
way, some in another. Often we describe the same system in multi-
ple ways. To describe a system as a knowledge system is just one of
the alternatives that is available. The choice of what description to
use is a pragmatic one, depending on our purposes and our own
knowledge of the system and its character.2

2. The use of the phrase “‘our purposes and our own knowledge’ in order to describe
the nature of knowledge is benign and does not indicate any vicious circle. To discuss
when an agent uses a given type of description, we must describe that agent. In this
instance, the appropriate description for the agent, which is us, is as a knowledge sys-
tem,

