Intendedly Rational Behavior » 365

Assign each letter a unique digit to make a correct sum

DONALD
+ GERALD D=5

ROBERT
Figure 7-1. The cryptarithmetic task.

tocols can be obtained from transcripts of their verbalizations while
they work (Newell & Simon, 1972). Analysis shows that people
solve the task by searching in a problem space and that the search
can be plotted explicitly.! Figure 7-2 shows the behavior of S3 on
DONALD + GERALD = ROBERT.’ The plot is called a problem-
behavior graph (PBG); it is just a way of spreading out the search
so it can be examined (Figure 1-4 showed a PBG for chess). S3
begins in the upper left dot (state), and the search moves out hori-
zontally. Each segment represents an operator application in the
space, each application yielding a new state. There is no room in
the figure to label each of these links with its operator. When the
search line ends at the right of a horizontal line, S3 has stopped
searching deeper and returns to some prior state he has already
generated. This is indicated by the vertical line (all vertically con-
nected dots represent the same state on successive returns). Then
another horizontal tine occurs representing another series of suc-
cessively deeper states. The double lines indicate where $3 applies
an operator already applied earlier, where, in other words, the same
path in the space is being retrod (though without labels it is not
always possible to tell which prior path is being repeated).

53 wanders around in the space for about 30 minutes, which
is ~2,000 sec. This is three orders of magnitude longer than
immediate-response behavior, which is ~2 sec. So this is extended
behavior, although 30 minutes is still short compared with other
time scales humans operate on. The average residence time in each
state is ~7 sec, which is in the ballpark of the ~~10 sec we have
been using for operators that are constructed for a specific task,
here the cryptarithmetic-space operators.

1. Not all people use the same problem space (Newell & Simon, 1972, chap. 7).

2. It comes as something of a shock to realize that S3, who was just a young college
student when this protocot was taken in 1960, must be about fifty years old now. As I
said, the cognitive revolution is getting on in years!

vn

