448 « Unified Theories of Cognition

Soar does not know the word check and hence (necessarily) does
not know it refers to /. This is about the simplest sort of situation in
which something is to be learned within the language structure
itself. It is learning a lexical item rather than a bit of syntax, but it is
a start.

It would seem, as noted above, that in processing this sentence
with the unknown word Soar should get some sort of an impasse.
But, in fact, it doesn’t. The reason is not far to seek. Explicit
expectations are a device for providing a form of loosely-coupled
computational organization. Comprehension operators put expec-
tations into working memory, at their pleasure, so to speak, and
only if the appropriate information arrives from other comprehen-
sion operators (at their pleasure) will later evocations occur that
finish the comprehension. When some information fails to become
available, all that happens is that nothing gets evoked later on.®
It might appear that we have stumbled upon another genuine
difficulty, but the problem is only one of not using relevant avail-
able knowledge. Let us rephrase the difficulty. Because of the
openness of expectations, the comprehension-operator strategy
does not know whether things are going right or wrong, so the
solution lies not in modifying the strategy but in making available
the requisite knowledge. The system needs to know when it com-
prehends. There is no way to know this with absolute certainty, for
the system does not already comprehend what it is attempting to
comprehend and hence has no way of knowing whether the com-
prehension that it has manufactured is right. This is the existential
situation of the language user in a real world, which nothing can
change. The interesting question is what surrogate criteria are avail-
able. In an expectation-driven system the natural criterion is
whether expectations are satisfied. To put the matter in an apparent
tautology—what more can you expect than the fulfillment of all
your expectations about the utterance?

Thus, Soar must not only have expectations for what is coming, it
must also have expectations that its expectations will be satisfied. It
cannot expect every expectation to be satisfied. Many expectations
are alternatives to other expectations—for example, different word

6. This is typical of cooperative computation, in which global properties such as
termination, success, and failure are system praperties unknown to the individual Pro
cessing elements.

