Human Cognitive Architecture # 133

proposed? Here the answer is yes, distal access in ~~10 ms seems
possible. This question provides a sort of sanity check, no more.
We know so little about the detailed mechanisms that we can only
analyze it for plausibility. Still, checking plausibility is important,
for it might show that having the function at the given level runs up
against some strong counter facts. In sum, we will try to run this
three-question test several times in an attempt to infer different
aspects of the cognitive architecture.

From the architectural level, let us move up to the deliberation
level of the cognitive band. This is the level at which the most
elementary deliberations occur. If this were fifty years ago, use of
the word deliberation would have been taken as moving the discus-
sion over into some world of the exclusively mental, By now in
cognitive science and AI, however, the operational meaning of de-
liberation is clear—to deliberate is to bring available knowledge to
bear to choose one operation rather than others. Deliberation can
be detected by observing the knowledge available in the system
(encoded in some physical structure) flowing into a common site
and being processed somehow. The right decision may not be pro-
duced, but at least the system is deliberating in order to make its
choice. The actual choice is accomplished by physical processes
such as those that perform a conditional branch instruction in digi-
tal computers. '° The deliberation level is the lowest level at which
this happens.

We now argue that the lowest level of deliberation must occur at
the ~~100 ms level. This is up just a single system level from the
basic architecture. The first question, then, is whether deliberation
could occur faster, at, say, the ~~10 ms level? Figure 3-6 shows
the essential minimal behavioral phases for deliberation. First, it
requires symbolic access of remote knowledge. That’s what delib-
eration is—bringing remote knowledge to bear. Within the local
circuit there cannot have been pre-assembled all the knowledge that
is relevant, for it was not yet known what knowledge to assemble.
Furthermore, deliberation cannot be limited to a single distal ac-
cess. At a local part of the system {the site of Figure 3-6), when

10. Actually, there are many physical processes that effectively take a choice be-
tween alternatives. An example is any process that takes a maximum of a function,
maxed flag ee £(x,)) and allows the recovery of the value that led to the

maximum ky, Rac ee eRe

