186 « Unified Theories of Cognition

1. Chunking converts goal-based problem solving into productions
* Actions are based on the results of the subgoal
« Conditions are based on the pre-impasse aspects necessary to

produce the action

2. Chunks are active processes (productions), not declarative data
+ Chunking is a form of permanent goal-based caching

3. Chunks are generalized implicitly
* ignores whatever the problem solving ignored

4, Learning occurs during problem solving
« Chunks become effective as soon as they are created

5, Chunking applies to all impasses, hence alt subgoals
+ Search control, operator implementation, ...
+ Whenever knowledge is incomplete or inconsistent

6. Chunking learns only what the system experiences
* Total problem-solving system is part of the learning system
+ Chunker is not intelligent per se, but a fixed mechanism

7. Chunking is a general mechanism to move up the preparation-
deliberation isobar

Figure 4-11. Properties of chunking.

Figure 4-12 shows what is going on in chunking. It is a display of
working memory, as time flows from left to right. I have spread out
the working-memory elements (the little circles) vertically just to
make it easier to see what is happening. This is a picture at the
production-system level, in which elements come into the working
memory one at a time, without regard to what problem spaces are
controlling the productions that fire. Any working-memory element
is produced by some production instantiated to some prior working-
memory elements. These causal linkages are indicated by the lines
in the figure. For instance, the element B is the result of some
production being instantiated on the elements ¢ and 6 to its left in
the figure. In reality, productions have many conditions and hence
there should be many lines back from each working-memory ele-
ment; but the figure is just schematic. Decision cycles are shown by
the dashed vertical lines. At some point an impasse occurs. This is
shown by the left-hand solid vertical line. The nature of the impasse
is not shown, because it does not enter into the story. Soar creates
the new subgoal context (as additional working-memory elements)
and proceeds to generate more working-memory elements. These,
of course, are dependent on available elements, some of which

