Intendedly Rational Behavior = 363

chitecture its consequences for human behavior, both in the large
and in the small.

The basic answer must be like the one about wrestling a gorilla—
in any way you can and with no holds barred. Actually, we have
already exhibited a fair variety of ways to reason from the architec-
ture. We have argued from the architecture’s general character to
the shape of human cognition (Chapter 4), We have abstracted
away from the details of the conditions of productions to an ac-
counting of functionally necessary operators (Chapter 5). We have
made detailed simulations from which learning curves could be
plotted (Chapter 6). However, not all types of theory have sur-
faced. We have not produced any strong mathematical theories or
proven any theorems about the architecture. The general reason
lies in the complexity of the architecture. Only when strong simpli-
fications are made, such as in the operator-accounting methods
(Chapter 5) or the highly abstract general model of learning by
chunking (Chapter 1), is mathematics potent enough to be useful.

Simulation is obviously an important technique for complex sys-
tems, but there are many ways to use simulation and it is useful to
illustrate their variety, for it will be a staple analysis technique for
any unified theory of cognition. In my own experience, psycholo-
gists generally treat their simulations fairly diffidently. They tend to
keep them off stage and to use them primarily as confirmation that
their theory is operational. Two examples may be cited, both from
classic works in cognitive science, whose positive impact is beyond
doubt. In both Anderson and Bower's Human Associative Memory
(1973) and Kosslyn’s Image and Mind (1980), simulation models
operate as the guarantors of the functionality of the models, but
they are allowed only a brief appearance to support the claim.
Nothing is said about their details, and they never enter into any
deductions, inferences, or demonstrations of the model. There are
lots of other uses for simulations than just providing warranties.

Intendedly rational behavior implies that the system is approach-
ing the knowledge level. To review (from Chapter 2), a knowledge-
level system is determined completely from its goals, its actions,
and the knowledge that it has to relate those two—operating, of
course, within a circle of external constraints. As a system moves
toward the knowledge level, behavior becomes more a function of
the task environment and no longer a function of internal con-
straints. Gradually one leaves the cognitive band and moves up into
