Symbolic Processing for Intelligence = 211

°
problem space to work in is that of proofs. The initial state is the
null proof and a desired state is a fully written-out proof—precisely
analogous to the problem space used by Designer and Cypress. But
hardly any theorem provers do that. Instead, they use the second
option. They start with the premises or axioms and apply valid
inference rules as they try to reach the to-be-proved theorem, '*
What they really desire is the successful sequence of steps taken,
not the final state reached. Just as in our second option, the final
structure is not a simple sequence but a tree or network. I have
called this the element strategy (Newell, 1983), since it takes the
states of the space to be elements rather than sequences or net-
works of elements,

Figure 4-20 shows a high-level trace of Designer-Soar on the
subset test. Designer-Soar prints out a preformed message when-
ever it does various critical things. Much information is suppressed,
but it lets us focus on the way Designer-Soar goes about its problem
solving. Designer-Soar starts by requesting the problem and then
simply printing it back out (decision cycle 2, or de 2). It first at-
tempts to go through the problem completely symbolically, that is,
assuming a symbolic input and operating on it by its general
operators. It manages to retrieve the input set and then gets stuck
because there is nothing specific enough to select the next thing to
do (de 106). Rerrieve is one of the generalized functional operators,
which will become components of the algorithm, so it is printed in
boldface. In the course of evaluating which alternative to choose, it
considers generate and then test (de 112, de L18), which appears (to
it) to satisfy the specs. All of this has been done entirely symboli-
cally on an input about which it knows only what the specs tell it,
namely that it is a set of integers. It avoids doing any actual compu-
tation by abstracting away from the values of generate and test and
considering only the types of their inputs and outputs (Unruh,
Rosenbloom, & Laird, 1987), What this abstract evaluation process
yields is a plan, since Soar knows it has abstracted the situation and
now must do it in full detail (de 158).

Returning from the evaluation, Soar proceeds to generate one
integer from the set and then to test it (de {62), still symbolically.

14. So-called refutation-formulalions, such as Resolution, seck to find a contradic-
tion, rather than the desired theorem; but it all comes to the same thing as far as these
two different types of formulations are concerned (Loveland. 1978).
