360 « Unified Theories of Cognition

ease of learning how to do so. Certain fields may be little exploited
as short-term memory, except under the press of experimenter-
imposed tasks. Soar does not yet have these fields circumscribed
sufficiently so that we can explore the ease or difficulty of using
them to build up a more detailed theory.

This presentation of the Soar theory of short-term memory has
been another exercise in reading off what follows from the existing
characteristics of Soar’s architecture. The most important result
was the realization that Soar provides only a functional theory of
STM, and that existing theories of STM all appear to rely on some
underlying technological limitation. We were able to sketch some of
the ways in which working memory had to be an STM to function,
but we were frustrated in the attempt to confront directly the main
phenomena of STM, such as the digit span. On the other hand,
some features of the architecture permitted us to make a conjecture
about one STM phenomena, namely, the plethora of separate short-
term memories.

6.7. Summary

Soar, as a unified theory of cognition, must provide a theory of
human memory and learning. This chapter has been devoted to
exploring such a theory. Mostly we have treated matters qualita-
tively and shown how the Soar architecture has the right general
shape. Qualitative exploration is important, for it is no good getting
the microscopic details right if the general shape will not do. This is
especially true for a unified theory, substantial discrepancies in the
details of which can be tolerated if the theory can still be used to
integrate the diverse phenomena of cognition.

The phenomenon of verbal learning provided a valuable lesson,
namely, that the global shape of a theory could be right and yet the
next level of detail could be wrong—not just wrong in some details,
but wrong enough to demand substantial investigation. This was the
problem of data chunking. It appeared that Soar was going to be
unable to learn declarative data presented from the outside. As it
turned out, we did not have to modify Soar—though that seemed a
possibility when we first tripped over the phenomenon. The es-
sence of the solution was separating the generation of the remem-
bered item from the test. Another lesson is that, now that we have
squeezed through the eye of the needle, so to speak, and found a

