436 = Unified Theories of Cognition

viduals calculate the utility to be expected on taking each alterna-
tive according to their subjective probabilities of what will even-
tuate and then select the alternative with the highest expected
utility. This is an important area of cognition, which remains iso-
lated in many ways from the rest of cognitive science and psy-
chology, mostly because of its conceptual origins in game theory
and econometrics but also because its typical task situations
(choices among abstract gambles) are of little interest to the rest of
psychology. Ultimately, there must be an integration of this area
into the rest of cognition. Soar is a natural vehicle for bringing
decision theory into the fold because of its strong flavor of in-
tendedly rational behavior, but how Soar will deal with probabil-
istic alternatives and expected outcomes, especially in the abstract
gambling tasks so dear to decision theory, is far from clear,

Both dreaming (Foulkes, 1985) and imagery (Kosslyn, 1980) are
phenomena that Soar, in its current form, does not deal with. Per-
haps progress can be made simply by doing again what we have
now done several times, namely, asking what is the natural way to
generate the appropriate phenomena. But, equally, additions to the
architecture could be required. Indeed, the smart money would go
for the latter. In either case, there is an obligation for Soar to cover
the full range of cognitive phenomena. It is conventional nowadays
not to task a cognitive theory with dreaming, but it takes little
reflection to see that dreaming is a first-order phenomenon. The
capability of dreaming, at least, should be explainable by any
unified cognitive theory worth its salt. On the other hand, thanks to
the imagery debate and to the subsequent explorations and models,
such as Kosslyn’s (1980), it may become the norm to include imag-
ery as a standard cognitive phenomenon that must be covered. We
seem to have much further to go before we feel the same way about
dreaming.

In Chapter | we discussed research in perceptual decisions as a
special harbinger of the convergence of theoretical explanations
into a narrow family involving cumulation of evidence with cutoffs,
modeled by random walks (Figure 1-11). We haven't applied Soar
to this area, because the details of perception are not well enough in
place yet. Some aspects of how Soar would treat these phenomena
are clear. Perceptual decisions that are automatic occur within the
elaboration phase, which is indeed a mechanism for accumulation.
If the perceptual situations are more complex and require some

