Foundations of Cognitive Science = 77

Memory
Contains structures that contain symbol tokens
Independently modifiable at some grain size

Symbols
Patterns that provide access to distal structures
A symbol token is the occurrence of a pattern in a structure

Operations
Processes that take symbol structures as input and produce symbol

structures as output

interpretation
Processes that take symbol structures as input and execute operations

Capacities

Sufficient memory and symbots
Complete compasability
Complete interpretability

Figure 2-11. Symbol system.

other symbol structures that guide behavior, this provides the capa-
bility to follow representation laws embodied as symbol structures
and to create new symbol structures to embody required represen-
tation laws. Thus, interpretation of structures that represent sym-
bol operations provides exactly the capability to compose functions
and thus to represent.

Within this very general processing structure, the only additional
requirements are some properties of sufficiency and completeness.
On the sufficiency side, there must be enough memory and enough
symbols. With insufficient resources, complicated transformations
can be generated that the system is unable to perform, just because
it runs out of the resources. On the completeness side, there are
two requirements. First, there must be complete composability—
the operators must make it possible to construct any symbol struc-
ture. Second, there must be complete interpretability—symbol
structures must be possible that determine any arrangement of op-
eration actions and the interpretation processes must be able to
evoke the operations given the symbol structures. Without these
forms of completeness there will be various things that a symbol

12, | have focused on the functionat character of symbol systems. There are also
implementation requirements not treated here. An important one is reliability. Structures
must remain stable and operations must do the same thing every time. Some failure of
reliability is not fatal but can imply styles of operation that involve redundancy and
verification.

