Symbolic Processing for Intetligence = 209

set —| Retrieve el Generate Lt [Test Kel Store

Figure 4-19, Subset-test algorithm.

prehend it. In any event, Designer-Soar uses a very general set of
functional operations: generate, select, test, retrieve, store (put in
memory), discard (ignore the item), apply (an operation), and re-
turn the result at the end of the algorithm. To have an algorithm is
to have a procedure described in terms of these operators. Figure
4-19 gives the algorithm for finding the subset of positive elements
of a set of numbers (the subset-rest). This is about the simplest
example of algorithm design that can be imagined.

The second issue is, What is given? Here matters are even more
problematic. In fact, the issue is also problematic for the tasks of
programming or coding, where the desired result can be clearly
stated. What is given when a person goes to construct a program?
The studies in AI and theoretical computer science have been ex-
tremely varied on this score, from input/output specifications in
some formal language, to sets of input/output examples, to sets of
specific program traces, to generic programs that are to be trans-
formed to more efficient ones. Each type of givens sets a different
task.

An important distinction is whether a designer already basically
understands the process for which the algorithm is being sought.
No human ever designs an algorithm for testing a subset without
already knowing what the test is and indeed knowing how to test for
the subset if given a specific input. The task of the algorithm de-
signer is how to express this knowledge in terms of an explicit
algorithm, rather than simply to have it as a cognitive skill. This
distinction is not observed in Al efforts on automatic programming
or on algorithm discovery, since the systems are never taken to be
repositories of substantial preexisting knowledge. Consequently
the AI systems really work on a dual task—to discover how to test
for a subset and to discover an algorithm to test for a subset. Soar
takes as given a knowledge of how to test a subset. This is ex-
pressed as a task-domain problem space with a set of basic opera-

