Along the Frontiers = 445

but in not having elaborate machinery at the top level that is to be
evoked willy-nilly. Elaboration comes in, when it does, in the act of
attempting to comprehend.

That the comprehension operator combines knowledge of syn-
tax, semantics, discourse, the task, and background context neces-
sarily follows from the scheme. It is not an independent assump-
tion. The comprehension operator is the only way that knowledge is
brought to bear. To claim some knowledge is not in the comprehen-
sion operator, say some semantic or discourse knowledge, is to
claim that the knowledge is not in fact brought to bear. This may be
true in some cases, but that is an empirical assertion about a partic-
ular word, not an assertion about the computational scheme.

Grammatical constructions arise from the forms of the expecta-
tions—phrase structure, word order, complex constructions. To
say it again, this is not a novel theory of language; it has much in
common with other expectation-driven systems (Small, 1979) and
even with systems that don’t declare outright their expectational
character (MacWhinney, 1987a). Soar tends to be like those theo-
ries that fit with the rest of the cognitive structure that Soar has.
After all, the fundamental issue is what knowledge of language,
communication, and task is to be brought to bear. Given that the
expectations are in the direction expected—adjacent before it and
adjacent after it, with due regard for the possibility of interposed
words—then the usual dependency and phrase-structure diagrams
describe what is going on. This scheme works not only for natural
language but also for formal and artificial kinds of notations. In fact,
the first place we used the comprehension-operator scheme was in
acquiring tasks from notations typical of programming languages.

This theory of language is embedded in a unified theory of cogni-
tion. Thus, additional implications arise immediately. For instance,
the approximate speed of reading is immediately determined, along
with a number of additional chronometric aspects of the reading
task. Without being very precise about it, because it is only a single,
simple sample, we can look back at the comprehension trace in
Figure 7-14. It executes a few operators per word (mostly, read-
word, install-node, and comprehend). If we assume that these
operators are well practiced (language is highly skilled behavior),
then they would seem to be minimal operators, working at ~60
ms, in terms of what we used for the chronometric analysis of
immediate-response behavior in Chapter 5. That yields ~180 ms
per word or about 330 words/min.

