200 © Unified Theories of Cognition

tails affect the issue, including aspects of the total system that will
not be taken up until the next chapter, and some of the details apply
only to perception or only to motor behavior. It is also possible that
smail refinements of the architecture will be discovered to make a
large difference, so the hypothesis is not one that is pointed exactly
at the current Soar architecture as cast-in-concrete. The impor-
tance of the hypothesis, if it were to prove out, is considerable. It
provides at one stroke a theory of both perceptual and motor learn-
ing, and it defines how they relate to deliberate cognitive learning.
The hypothesis is worth stating here because it highlights the inte-
grated structure of the total Soar architecture.

We now put aside the total cognitive system and return to central
cognition, in order to make sure its operation and scope are under-
stood. From now on, however, the central cognitive mechanism
should not be assumed to be floating in a vacuum—or forever lost
in thought, as Guthrie would have it of Tolman's rats with their
cognitive-maps (Guthrie, 1953), Rather, central cognition is the
control structure of a behaving organism.

4.4, R1-Soar: Knowledge-Intensive and
Knowiledge-Lean Operation

Let us look at examples of how Soar behaves. The blocks world isa
toy example that is useful for understanding the mechanics of how
Soar operates, but it does not reveal much about whether these
mechanisms constitute an intelligent system. The best examples to
use are the tasks that have made the largest demands for intel-
ligence. These come from the efforts to develop Soar as an Al
system.

RI {also called XCON) is an expert system developed by John
McDermott at CMU jointly with Digital Equipment Corporation
(McDermott, 1982). Ri has become one of the most commerciaily
successful expert systems (Bachant & McDermott, 1984). Every
Digital Vax computer has its order processed through R1, and this
system sits at the center of a collection of expert systems at Digital
that control and structure the sales and manufacture of Vax com-
puters.

RI takes as input the order that comes from the salesperson in
conjunction with the customer ordering the Vax. RI verifies that

