                          Context →    Bob went to the gas station to fill up his car.  His tank was completely
                                       empty and so was his wallet.  The cashier offered to pay for his gas if he
                                       came back later to pay.  Bob felt grateful as he drove home.
                   Correct Answer →    Bob believed that there were good people in the world.
                 Incorrect Answer →    Bob contemplated how unfriendly the world was.
                                          Figure G.17: Formatted dataset example for StoryCloze
                           Context →    Helsinki is the capital and largest city of Finland.  It is in the region
                                        of Uusimaa, in southern Finland, on the shore of the Gulf of Finland.
                                        Helsinki has a population of , an urban population of , and a metropolitan
                                        population of over 1.4 million, making it the most populous municipality
                                        and urban area in Finland.  Helsinki is some north of Tallinn, Estonia,
                                        east of Stockholm, Sweden, and west of Saint Petersburg, Russia.  Helsinki
                                        has close historical connections with these three cities.
                                        The Helsinki metropolitan area includes the urban core of Helsinki, Espoo,
                                        Vantaa, Kauniainen, and surrounding commuter towns.  It is the world’s
                                        northernmost metro area of over one million people, and the city is the
                                        northernmost capital of an EU member state.  The Helsinki metropolitan
                                        area is the third largest metropolitan area in the Nordic countries
                                        after Stockholm and Copenhagen, and the City of Helsinki is the third
                                        largest after Stockholm and Oslo.  Helsinki is Finland’s major political,
                                        educational, financial, cultural, and research center as well as one of
                                        northern Europe’s major cities.  Approximately 75% of foreign companies
                                        that operate in Finland have settled in the Helsinki region.  The nearby
                                        municipality of Vantaa is the location of Helsinki Airport, with frequent
                                        service to various destinations in Europe and Asia.
                                        Q: what is the most populous municipality in Finland?
                                        A: Helsinki
                                        Q: how many people live there?
                                        A: 1.4 million in the metropolitan area
                                        Q: what percent of the foreign companies that operate in Finland are in
                                        Helsinki?
                                        A: 75%
                                        Q: what towns are a part of the metropolitan area?
                                        A:
                 Target Completion →    Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa, Kauniainen, and surrounding commuter towns
                                            Figure G.18: Formatted dataset example for CoQA
                           Context →    Please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word:
                                        asinoc =
                 Target Completion →    casino
                                        Figure G.19: Formatted dataset example for Cycled Letters
                                                                 55
