                         Preprint, Under Review.
                         A.2   EVAL ZERO SHOT PROMPTS
                         Prompt 18 is used for the zero-shot evaluation agent that never plans and is simply tasked
                         with outputting the next action based on previous observations.   Prompt 19 is used for the
                         plan-every-k-steps agents, where the model is instructed to generate a plan at fixed in-
                         tervals and to act directly at other times. In such cases, Prompt 17 is used at steps where planning is
                         not required. These zero-shot evaluations help assess the impact of planning frequency in the absence
                         of fine-tuning.
                                                             Never Plan Prompt
                            Look at your previous observations, then choose exactly ONE action
                            from the allowed actions listed previously.
                            Output no other text.
                         Prompt 18: Prompt instructing the model to directly choose the next action based on previous
                         observations.
                                                            Plan Every K Prompt
                            Review your previous observations and plan, then make a high-level
                            plan for completing the task.         Your plan can include reasoning about
                            how to solve the task.
                            After this planning phase, you will be asked to take actions one at a
                            time.
                            Output your plan strictly in the following format:
                            <plan>YOUR PLAN</plan>
                            Replace YOUR PLAN with your own thinking and plan.
                            After your plan, choose exactly ONE action from the allowed actions
                            listed previously.
                            Output no other text.
                               Prompt 19: Prompt used in fixed-frequency planning; elicits a plan at regular intervals.
                         A.3   DYNAMICPLANNINGPROMPTS
                         Finally, Prompt 20 is used to replace all the aforementioned instruction prompts when creating the
                         SFT dataset. This ensures the agent observes that the same prompt can elicit different planning
                         strategies, with the goal that RL fine-tuning will enable it to learn to choose the appropriate type of
                         plan. The adaptive nature of this prompt allows the model to autonomously decide when to create or
                         update plans, facilitating flexible and context-aware decision-making.
                                                                      23
