                • If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to
                 the asset’s creators.
             13. NewAssets
               Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation
               provided alongside the assets?
               Answer: [NA]
               Justification: We relay the details of constructing samples but we do not release any actual
               datasets.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not release new assets.
                • Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their
                 submissions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license,
                 limitations, etc.
                • The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose
                 asset is used.
                • At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either
                 create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file.
             14. Crowdsourcing and Research with Human Subjects
               Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper
               include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as
               well as details about compensation (if any)?
               Answer: [NA]
               Justification: The paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
                 humansubjects.
                • Including this information in the supplemental material is fine, but if the main contribu-
                 tion of the paper involves human subjects, then as much detail as possible should be
                 included in the main paper.
                • According to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, workers involved in data collection, curation,
                 or other labor should be paid at least the minimum wage in the country of the data
                 collector.
             15. Institutional Review Board (IRB) Approvals or Equivalent for Research with Human
               Subjects
               Question: Does the paper describe potential risks incurred by study participants, whether
               such risks were disclosed to the subjects, and whether Institutional Review Board (IRB)
               approvals (or an equivalent approval/review based on the requirements of your country or
               institution) were obtained?
               Answer: [NA]
               Justification: The paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
                 humansubjects.
                • Depending on the country in which research is conducted, IRB approval (or equivalent)
                 mayberequiredfor any human subjects research. If you obtained IRB approval, you
                 should clearly state this in the paper.
                • Werecognize that the procedures for this may vary significantly between institutions
                 and locations, and we expect authors to adhere to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics and the
                 guidelines for their institution.
                • For initial submissions, do not include any information that would break anonymity (if
                 applicable), such as the institution conducting the review.
                               30
