              5. Openaccess to data and code
               Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instruc-
               tions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
               material?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We plan to provide data and code via Github after the paper is made publicly
               available online.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
                • Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https://nips.cc/
                 public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy)formoredetails.
                • While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
                 possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
                 including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
                 benchmark).
                • The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
                 reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
                 //nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy)formoredetails.
                • The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
                 to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
                • The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
                 proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
                 should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
                • At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
                 versions (if applicable).
                • Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
                 paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
              6. Experimental setting/details
               Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyper-
               parameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
               results?
               Answer:[Yes]
               Justification: Detailed descriptions of the experiment and the associated code are provided
               in the supplementary materials.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • Theexperimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
                 that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
                • The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
                 material.
              7. Experiment statistical significance
               Question: Doesthepaperreporterrorbarssuitablyandcorrectlydefinedorotherappropriate
               information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: To account for variability and support statistical validity, we report standard
               deviations computed over multiple runs.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confi-
                 dence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
                 the main claims of the paper.
                               19
