                           Context →    TITLE: William Perry (American football) - Professional career
                                        PARAGRAPH: In 1985, he was selected in the first round of the 1985 NFL
                                        Draft by the Chicago Bears; he had been hand-picked by coach Mike Ditka.
                                        However, defensive coordinator Buddy Ryan, who had a highly acrimonious
                                        relationship with Ditka, called Perry a "wasted draft-pick". Perry
                                        soon became a pawn in the political power struggle between Ditka and
                                        Ryan.  Perry’s "Refrigerator" nickname followed him into the NFL and he
                                        quickly became a favorite of the Chicago Bears fans.  Teammates called
                                        him "Biscuit," as in "one biscuit shy of 350 pounds." While Ryan refused
                                        to play Perry, Ditka decided to use Perry as a fullback when the team was
                                        near the opponents’ goal line or in fourth and short situations, either
                                        as a ball carrier or a lead blocker for star running back Walter Payton.
                                        Ditka stated the inspiration for using Perry as a fullback came to him
                                        during five-yard sprint exercises. During his rookie season, Perry
                                        rushed for two touchdowns and caught a pass for one.  Perry even had
                                        the opportunity to run the ball during Super Bowl XX, as a nod to his
                                        popularity and contributions to the team’s success.  The first time he
                                        got the ball, he was tackled for a one-yard loss while attempting to throw
                                        his first NFL pass on a halfback option play.  The second time he got the
                                        ball, he scored a touchdown (running over Patriots linebacker Larry McGrew
                                        in the process).  About halfway through his rookie season, Ryan finally
                                        began to play Perry, who soon proved that he was a capable defensive
                                        lineman.  His Super Bowl ring size is the largest of any professional
                                        football player in the history of the event.  His ring size is 25, while
                                        the ring size for the average adult male is between 10 and 12. Perry went
                                        on to play for ten years in the NFL, retiring after the 1994 season.  In
                                        his ten years as a pro, he regularly struggled with his weight, which
                                        hampered his performance at times.  He played in 138 games, recording
                                        29.5 sacks and five fumble recoveries, which he returned for a total of
                                        71 yards.  In his offensive career he ran five yards for two touchdowns,
                                        and had one reception for another touchdown.  Perry later attempted a
                                        comeback, playing an unremarkable 1996 season with the London Monarchs of
                                        the World League of American Football (later NFL Europa).
                                        Q: what team did he play for?
                                        A:
                 Target Completion →    the Chicago Bears
                                            Figure G.25: Formatted dataset example for QuAC
                           Context →    Please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word:
                                        r e!c.i p r o.c a/l =
                 Target Completion →    reciprocal
                                       Figure G.26: Formatted dataset example for Symbol Insertion
                           Context →    Please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word:
                                        taefed =
                 Target Completion →    defeat
                                        Figure G.27: Formatted dataset example for Reversed Words
                                                                 57
