                                                                                                              SegPoint        5
                                        !Geometric Enhancer Module     ! Geometric-guided              ⊗
                                                                           Feature Propagation
                                                                                                 !Projection
                                                                                       output tokens       <SEG>
                                         ❄ Point Encoder                         C          …                       ❄Frozen
                                                                                                                    !Trainable
                                                                            ❄Large Language Model                     Pillow.
                                                                                                       LoRA !
                                                                                                                    Output Text
                                                                             Where is items used for supporting the head while 
                                                                             sleeping or resting. Please output segmentation mask.
                                    Fig.2: The pipeline of SegPoint. Given input point cloud and text query, the multi-
                                    modal LLM F generates text output. Geometric Enhancer Module G injects geometric
                                                                                                      ˆ
                                    information into Point Encoder E and obtains point features fpoint. Per-point embed-
                                    dings fP derived from Geometric-guided Feature Propagation P multiplied with the
                                                                    Where is the 3D object, {class_name} in this 
                                    embedding associated with the <SEG> token yield the final segmentation masks.
                                                                    point cloud? Please output segmentation mask.
                                    interaction remains constrained. Besides, Seal [38] aims to segment any point
                                    cloud through distilling vision foundation models, while it doesn’t use language
                                    as cues. TGNN [22] is the first work to tackle referring segmentation problem
                                    that proposes aggregating textual features by considering the neighboring local
                                    structure of each instance but it heavily depends on explicit expressions or pre-
                                    defined categories for language understanding. Furthermore, the development of
                                    models tailored to specific segmentation tasks restricts their versatility and ap-
                                    plicability in diverse real-world scenarios. Therefore, it is imperative to develop
                                    moreintelligent interaction ways and a unified model for 3D point segmentation.
                                    3     Approach
                                    3.1    Architecture Overview
                                    The overall architecture of SegPoint is presented in Fig. 2. SegPoint mainly
                                    comprises four parts: i) a pre-trained point encoder E tailored for aligning with
                                    textual data; ii) a large language model F endowed with advanced reasoning
                                    capabilities; iii) a Geometric Enhancer Module G responsible for extracting geo-
                                    metric representation from input point clouds and infusing these priors into the
                                    point encoder; and iv) a Geometric-guided Feature Propagation P which is key
                                    to achieving precise mask generation. The collaboration between the Geometric
                                    Enhancer Module and Geometric-guided Feature Propagation is crucial, as it
                                    equips LLMs with the ability to generate masks effectively in various scenarios.
                                    3.2    Vanilla Baseline
                                    The input of the framework is the text instructions i           and point cloud i         ∈
                                                                                                 txt                    point
                                    RN×(3+F). Specifically, a point cloud scene, comprising N points, each includes
