                   Title:  United Methodists Agree to Historic Split
                   Subtitle:  Those who oppose gay marriage will form their own denomination
                   Article: After two days of intense debate, the United Methodist Church
                   has agreed to a historic split - one that is expected to end in the
                   creation of a new denomination, one that will be "theologically and
                   socially conservative," according to The Washington Post. The majority of
                   delegates attending the church's annual General Conference in May voted to
                   strengthen a ban on the ordination of LGBTQ clergy and to write new rules
                   that will "discipline" clergy who officiate at same-sex weddings.      But
                   those who opposed these measures have a new plan: They say they will form a
                   separate denomination by 2020, calling their church the Christian Methodist
                   denomination.
                   The Post notes that the denomination, which claims 12.5 million members, was
                   in the early 20th century the "largest Protestant denomination in the U.S.,"
                   but that it has been shrinking in recent decades. The new split will be the
                   second in the church's history.    The first occurred in 1968, when roughly
                   10 percent of the denomination left to form the Evangelical United Brethren
                   Church. The Post notes that the proposed split "comes at a critical time
                   for the church, which has been losing members for years," which has been
                   "pushed toward the brink of a schism over the role of LGBTQ people in the
                   church." Gay marriage is not the only issue that has divided the church. In
                   2016, the denomination was split over ordination of transgender clergy, with
                   the North Pacific regional conference voting to ban them from serving as
                   clergy, and the South Pacific regional conference voting to allow them.
              Figure 3.14: The GPT-3 generated news article that humans had the greatest difﬁculty distinguishing from a human
              written article (accuracy: 12%).
                   Title:  Star’s Tux Promise Draws Megyn Kelly’s Sarcasm
                   Subtitle:  Joaquin Phoenix pledged to not change for each awards event
                   Article: A year ago, Joaquin Phoenix made headlines when he appeared on
                   the red carpet at the Golden Globes wearing a tuxedo with a paper bag over
                   his head that read, "I am a shape-shifter. I can't change the world. I
                   can only change myself." It was a promise to not change to fit into the
                   Hollywood mold:   "I think that's a really special thing, to not change
                   yourself.   I think it's a really special thing to say, `This is what's
                   inside of me, I'm proud of it, and I'm not going to be ashamed because of
                   the way that someone else thinks I should be.'" Now, it's the Oscars, and
                   Phoenix is at it again.   But this time, his publicist is saying he'll be
                   wearing a tux no matter what.
                   Megyn Kelly was not impressed, and she let him have it on The Tonight Show.
                   "You know, I feel like, I feel like you could have worn the tux," she says.
                   "But you're saying you're a shape-shifter. I don't know if you can change
                   your tux, but you can change your mind. You can change your mind. You can
                   change your mind." Phoenix says he did, but it didn't stick.     "I was like,
                   `Okay, I'm going to wear a tuxedo to this thing.' And then I thought, `I
                   don't want to wear a tuxedo to this thing.'" Kelly goes on to encourage him
                   to change his mind again, but Phoenix says it's too late: "I'm committed to
                   wearing this."
              Figure 3.15: The GPT-3 generated news article that humans found the easiest to distinguish from a human written
              article (accuracy: 61%).
                                                           28
