      DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING
                 DYNAMIC
          PROGRAMMING
                           BY
                  RICHARD BELLMAN
             PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS
                PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY
                    A Rand Corporation Research Study
                 Published, 1957, by Princeton University Press
                         ISBN 0-691-07951-X
                         Sixth Printing, 1972
                   Printed in the United States of America
                             To Betty-Fo
                             whose decision processes defy analysis
                         Preface
         The purpose of this work is to provide an introduction to the mathe-
        matical theory of multi-stage decision processes. Since these constitute
        a somewhat formidable set of terms we have coined the term ‘“‘dynamic
        programming’to describe the subject matter. Actually, as we shall see,
        the distinction involves more than nomenclature. Rather, it involves a
        certain conceptual framework which furnishes us a new and versatile
        mathematical tool for the treatment of many novel and interesting
        problems both in this new discipline and in various parts of classical
        analvsis. Before expanding upon this theme, let us present a brief
        discussion of what is meant by a multi-stage decision process.
         Let us suppose that we have a physical system S whose state at any
        time ¢ is specified by a vector p, If we are in an optimistic frame of mind
        we can visualize the components of # to be quite definite quantities such
        as Cartesian coordinates, or position and momentum coordinates, or
        perhaps volume and temperature, or if we are considering an economic
        system, supply and demand, or stockpiles and production capacities. If
        our mood is pessimistic, the components of # may be supposed to be
        probability distributions for such quantities as position and momentum,
        or perhaps momentsof a distribution.
         In the course of time, this system is subject to changes of either
        deterministic or stochastic origin which, mathematically speaking, means
        that the variables describing the system undergo transformations.
        Assume nowthat in distinction to the above we have a processin which
        we have a choice of the transformations which may be applied to the
        system at any time. A process of this type we call a decision process,
        with a decision equivalent to a transformation. If we have to make a
        single decision, we call the process a single-stage process; if a sequence
        of decisions, than we use the term multi-stage decision process.
         The distinction, of course, is not hard and fast. The choice of a point
        in three-dimensional space maybe considered to be a single-stage process
        wherein we choose (%, y, 2), or a multi-stage process where we choose
        first x, then y, and then z.
         There are a number of multi-stage processes which are quite familiar
        to us. Perhaps the most commonare those occurring in card games, such
                                             Vil
                                                                        PREFACE
                       as the bidding system in contract bridge, or the raise-counter-raise
                       system of poker with its delicate overtones of bluffing. On largerscale,
                       we continually in our economic life engage in multi-stage decision
                       processes in connection with investment programsand insurancepolicies.
                       In the scientific world, control processes and the design of experiments
                       furnish other examples.
                          The point we wish to make is that in modern life, in economic, in-
                       dustrial, scientific and even political spheres, we are continually sur-
                       rounded by multi-stage decision processes. Some of these we treat on
                       the basis of experience, some weresolve by rule-of-thumb, and some are
                       too complex for anything but an educated guess and a prayer.
                          Unfortunately for the peace of mind of the economist, industrialist,
                       and engineer, the problems that have arisen in recent years in the eco-
                       nomic, industrial, and engineering fields are too vast in portent and
                       extent to be treated in the haphazard fashion that was permissible in a
                       more leisurely bygoneera. The price of tremendous expansion has become
                       extreme precision.
                          These problems, although arising in a multitude of diverse fields, share
                       a common property—they are exceedingly difficult. Whether they arise
                       in the study of optimal inventory or stock control, or in an input-output
                       analysis of a complex of interdependent industries, in the scheduling of
                       patients through a medical clinic or the servicing of aircraft at an
                       airfield, the study of logistics or investment policies, in the control of
                       servo-mechanisms,or in sequential testing, they possess certain common
                       thorny features which stretch the confines of conventional mathematical
                       theory.
                          It follows that new methods must be devised to meet the challenge of
                       these new problems, and to a mathematician nothing could be more
                       pleasant. It is a characteristic of this species that its members are
                       never so happy as when confronted by problems which cannot be
                       solved—immediately. Although the day is long past when anyone
                       seriously worried about the well of mathematical invention running dry,
                       it  is  still nonetheless a source of great delight to see a vast untamed
                       jungle of difficult and significant problems, such as those furnished by
                       the theory of multi-stage decision processes, suddenly appear before us.
                          Having conjured upthis preserve of problems, let us see what compass
                       we shall use to chart our path into this new domain. The conventional
                       approach we may label “enumerative.’’ Each decision may be thought
                       of as a choice of a certain number of variables which determine the
                       transformation to be employed; each sequenceof choices, or policy as we
                       shall say, is a choice of a larger set of variables. By lumpingall these
                       choices together, we “‘reduce’’ the problem to a classical problem of
                      V1
                                                                     PREFACE
                      determining the maximum of a given function. This function, which
                      arises in the course of measuring some quantitative property of the
                      system, serves the purpose of evaluating policies.
                          At this point it 1s very easy for the mathematician to lose interest
                      and let the computing machine take over. To maximize a reasonably
                      well-behaved function seems a simple enough task; we take partial
                      derivatives and solve the resulting system of equations for the maxti-
                      mizing point.
                          There are, however, some details to consider. In the first place, the
                      effective analytic solution of a large number of even simple equations
                      as, for example, linear equations,is a difficult affair. Lowering oursights,
                      even a computational solution usually has a number of difficulties of
                      both gross and subtle nature. Consequently, the determination of this
                      maximum is quite definitely not routine when the numberof variables
                      is  large.
                         All this may be subsumed underthe heading “‘the curseofdimensional-
                      ity.’ Since this is a curse which has hung over the head of the physicist
                      and astronomer for many a year, there is no need to feel discouraged
                      about the possibility of obtainingsignificant results despite it.
                         However, this is not the sole difficulty. A further characteristic of
                      these problems, as weshall see in the ensuing pages, 1s that calculus is
                      not always sufficient for our purposes, as a consequence of the perverse
                      fact that quite frequently the solution is a boundary point of the region
                      of variation. This is a manifestation of the fact that many decision
                      processes embodycertain all-or-nothing characteristics. Very often then,
                      we are reduced to determining the maximum of a function by a combi-
                      nation of analytic and “‘hunt and search’’ techniques.
                         Whatever the difficulties arising in the deterministic case which we
                      have tacitly been assuming above, these difficulties are compoundedin
                      the stochastic case, where the outcome of a decision, or tranformation,
                      is a random variable. Here any crude lumping or enumerative technique
                      is surely doomed by the extraordinary manner in which the numberof
                      combinations of cases increases with the numberof cases.
                         Assume, however, that we have circumventedall these difficulties and
                      have attained a certain computational nirvana. Withal, the mathe-
                      matician has not discharged his responsibilities. The problem is not to
                      be considered solved in the mathematical sense until the structure of the
                     optimal policy 1s understood.
                         Interestingly enough, this concept of the mathematical solution is
                     identical with the proper conceptof a solution in the physical, economic,
                     or engineering sense. In order to make this point clear—and it is a most
                     important point since in many waysit is the raison d’étre for mathe-
                                                                                                                             iX
                             PREFACE
         matical physics, mathematical economics, and many similar hybrid
         fields—let us make a brief excursion into the philosophy of mathematical
         models.
           The goal of the scientist is to comprehend the phenomena of the
         universe he observes around him. To prove that he understands, he must
         be able to predict, and to predict, one requires quantitative measure-
         ments. A qualitative prediction such as the occurrence of an eclipse
         or an earthquake or a depression sometime in the near future does not
         have the samesatisfying features as a similar prediction associated with
         a date and time, and perhaps backed up by the offer of a side wager.
           To predict quantitatively one must have a mechanism for producing
         numbers, and this necessarily entails a mathematical model. It seems
         reasonable to suppose that the morerealistic this mathematical model,
         the more accurate the prediction.
           There is, however, a point of diminishing returns. The actual world is
         extremely complicated, and as a matter of fact the more that one studies
         it the more oneis filled with wonder that we have even “‘order of magni-
         tude’ explanations of the complicated phenomena that occur, much
         less fairly consistent “laws of nature.’ If we attempt to include too many
         features of reality in our mathematical model, wefind ourselves engulfed
         by complicated equations containing unknown parameters and unknown
         functions. The determination of these functions leads to even more
         complicated equationswithevenmoreunknownparametersandfunctions,
         and so on. Truly a tale that knows noend.
           If, on the other hand, made timid by these prospects, we construct
         our modelin too simple a fashion, we soon find that it does not predict
         to suit our tastes.
           It follows that the Scientist, like the Pilgrim, must wend a straight
         and narrow path between the Pitfalls of Oversimplification and the
         Morass of Overcomplication.
           Knowing that no mathematical model can yield a complete description
         of reality, we must resign ourselves to the task of using a succession of
         models of greater and greater complexity in our efforts to understand.
         If we observe similar structural features possessed by the solutions of a
         sequence of models, then we may feel that we have an approximation
         to whatis called a “law of nature.”’
           It follows that froma teleological point of view the particular numerical
         solution of anyparticular set of equations is of far less importance than
         the understanding of the nature of the solution, which is to say the
         influence of the physical properties of the system upon the form of the
         solution.
           Nowlet us see how this idea guides us to a new formulation of these
                             PREFACE
         decision processes, and indeed of some other processes of analysis which
         are not usually conceived of as decision processes. In the conventional
         formulation, we consider the entire multi-stage decision process as
         essentially one stage, at the expense of vastly increasing the dimension
         of the problem. Thus, if we have an N-stage process where M decisions
         are to be madeat each stage, the classical approach envisages an MN-
         dimensional single-stage process. The fundamental problem that con-
         fronts us is: How can weavoid this multiplication of dimension which
         stifles analysis and greatly impedes computation ?
           In order to answer this, let us turn to the previously enunciated
         principle that it is the structure of the policy which is essential. What
         does this mean precisely? It means that we wish to know the charac-
         teristics of the system which determine the decision to be made at any
         particular stage of the process. Put another way, in place of determining
         the optimal sequence of decisions from some fixed state of the system,
         we wish to determine the optimal decision to be made at any state of
         the system. Only 1f we know the latter, do we understand the intrinsic
         structure of the solution.
           The mathematical advantage of this formulation les first of all in
         the fact that it reduces the dimension of the process to its proper level,
         namely the dimensionofthedecision whichconfrontsoneat anyparticular
         stage. This makes the problem analytically more tractable ‘and compu-
         tationally vastly simpler. Secondly, as we shall see, it furnishes us with
         a type of approximation which has a unique mathematical property,
         that of monotonicity of convergence, and is well suited to applications,
         namely, “approximation in policy space’’.
           The conceptual advantage of thinking in terms of policies is very
         great. It affords us a means of thinking about and treating problems
         which cannot be profitably discussed in any other terms. If we were to
         hazard a guess as to which direction of research would achievethegreatest
         success in the future of multi-dimensional processes, we would un-
         hesitatingly choose this one.
           The theme of this volume will be the application of this concept of
         a solution to a number of processes of varied type which weshall
         discuss below.
           The title is also derived in this way. The problems wetreat are pro-
         gramming problems, to use a terminology now popular. The adjective
         ‘“‘dynamic,”’ however, indicates that we are interested in processes in
         which time plays a significant role, and in which the order of operations
         may be crucial. However, an essential feature of our approach will be
         the reinterpretation of many static processes as dynamic processes in
         which time can be artificially introduced.
                                                    x1
                                                  PREFACE
                   Let us now turn to a discussion of the contents.
                   In the first chapter we consider a multi-stage allocation process of
                deterministic type which is a prototype of a general class of problems
                encountered in various phases of logistics, in multi-stage investment
                processes, in the study of optimal purchasing policies, and in the treat-
                ment of many other economic processes. From the mathematical point
                of  view, the problem is related to multi-dimensional maximization
                problems, and ultimately, as will be indicated below, to the calculus
                of variations.
                   Weshall first discuss the process in the conventional manner and
                observe the dimensional difficulties which arise from the discussion of
                even very simple processes. Then we shall introduce the fundamental
                technique of the theory, the conversion of the original maximization
                problem into the problem of determining the solution of a functional
                equation.
                  The functional equations whicharise in this way are of a novel type,
                completely different from any of the functional equations encountered
                in classical analysis. The particular one we shall employ for purposes
                of discussion in this chapter is
                (1)     f(*) =     Max [g(y) +A (x—y) +f(ay+ (x—y))].
                                 O<sysu
                where g and / are known functions and a and b are known constants,
                satisfying the condition 0< a,b <1.
                  After establishing an existence and uniqueness theorem, we shall
                derive some simple properties of the optimal policy which can be deduced
                from simple functional properties of g and h. In particular, we shall
                present the explicit solution of some equations where g and h have
                various special forms.
                  The advantage of obtaining these solutions lies in the fact that they
                can be utilized to obtain approximationsto the solutions of more complhi-
                cated equations, and, what is more important, approximations to the
                associated optimal policies. The subject of approximation leads us to
                the concept of approximation in policy space, of importance and utility
                in both theoretical and practical discussion, and to the discussion of
                the question of the stability of f under changes in g and A.
                  In the second chapter we consider a multi-stage decision process of
                stochastic type in the guise of a gold-mining venture with a delicate
                gold-mining machine. Here we encounter the equation
                                              A:
                                                  py(rx%
                                                          +
                                                            f((l1—n)
                                                                         x,
                                                                          y)]
                (2)
                            I
                              (%,
                                 ¥)
                                    ==
                                       Max
                                             FB
                                                  pelrav
                                                          +f
                                                               (x,
                                                                  (1
                                                                     —?r,)
                                                                           oo
               XI
                                                 PREFACE
                  In addition to pursuing an investigation similar to that given in
                Chapter I, we actually obtain a solution to this equation, and some of
                its generalizations. The solution has a particularly simple and intuitive
                form, and introduces the useful idea of “decision regions.”’
                  We show, however, that some other generalizations do not have as
                simple a structure, and, indeed, pose as yet unresolved problems. An
                attempt to obtain approximate solutions to these problems for a parti-
                cular region of parameter space will lead us to the continuous versions
                treated in Chapter VIII.
                  Chapter IIT is devoted to a synthesis of these processes which seem so
               different at first glance. In this chapter we analyze the commonfeatures
               of the two processes treated in the preceding chapters, and then proceed
                to formulate general versions of these processes. In this way we obtain
                the functional equation
               (3)            f(p) = Max [g (6, g) + A(b, a) F(T (6, O)),
                                         q
               which includes both of the preceding, and a number of equations of
               still more general type.
                  Also in this chapter we explicitly state the “principle of optimality”’
               whose mathematical transliteration in the case of any specific process
               yields the functional equation governing the process. The concept of
               “approximation in policy space’ is also discussed in more detail.
                  In the following chapter, Chapter IV, a number of existence and
               uniqueness theorems are established for several frequently occurring
               classes of equations having the above form. Our proofs hinge upon a
               simple lemma which enables us to compare twosolutions of the equation
               in (3). Although these equations are highly non-linear, in many ways
               they constitute a natural generalization of linear equations. For this
               reason alone, aside from their applications, they merit study.
                  In Chapter V, we discuss a functional equation derived from a problem
               of much economic interest at the current time, the “optimal inventory”’
               problem. Here we show that the various techniques we have discussed
               in the preceding chaptersyield the solutions of someinteresting particular
               cases. In particular, we show that the method of successive approxima-
               tions is an efficient analytic tool for the discovery of properties of the
               solution andthepolicy, rather than merely a humdrum meansof obtaining
               existence and uniqueness theorems. There are many different versions
               of the optimal inventory problem and werestrict ourselves to a discussion
               of the mathematical modelfirst proposed by Arrow, Harris,and Marschak,
               and treated also by Dvoretzky, Kiefer, and Wolfowitz.
                                                                                       X11
                             PREFACE
           A particular equation of the type we shall consider is
         (4) f (x) = Min (g (y — x) + at{{2 (s -~ y) dG (s) +f(0) [a (s)
                         + [Fo—sacish
           Wethen turn to a study of what wecall “‘bottleneck processes.’’ These
         we define as processes where a numberof interdependent activities are
         to be combined for one common purpose,with the level of this principal
         activity dependent upon the minimumlevelof activity of the components.
           Two chapters are devoted to these problems, the first, Chapter VI,
         of theoretical nature, and the second, Chapter VII, given over to the
         actual details of the complete solution of one particular process.
           The problems that we encounter are particular cases of the general
         problem, apparently not treated before in any mathematical detail, of
         determining the maximum over z of the inner product (x (7), a), where
         x and z are connected by meansof the vector-matrix equation
         (5)           dx|dt = Ax + Bz,x(0) =c,
         and where there is a constraint of the form Cz + Dx <f. Here x, z, c
         andf are vectors and A, B, C and D are matrices. The linearity of the
         operators and functionals constitutes the principal difficulty.
           We might observe parenthetically that it is often thought that line-
         arizing a problem facilitates its solution. On occasion, however, partic-
         ularly in variational problems, it frequently complicates affairs to an
         enormous degree, since this linearization renders classical variational
         techniques largely inapplicable. In return, however, the computational
         solution of particular cases may often be obtained by routine procedures.
           In Chapter VIII, we return to the gold-mining process, and consider
         a continuous version. There are many problems, someof a quite recondite
         nature, associated with the formulation of continuous stochastic decision
         processes. In the processes at hand, we are fortunate in being able to
         sidestep these difficulties. In the continuous version, combining the
         classical variational approach with the techniques employed in previous
         chapters, we are able to solve completely the continuous versions of a
         numberof problems that were resolutely intractable in the discrete case.
           Wenowturn to the calculus of variations in Chapter IX, and show
         that various characteristic problems may be viewed as dynamic
         programming processes of continuous and deterministic type.
           In geometric terms, the classical formulation is equivalent to con-
         sidering an extremal curve as a locus of points, while the dynamic
         X1V
                                                  PREFACE
                programming formulation conceives of the extremal as the envelope
                of tangents.
                  Taking this latter point of view, we are able to obtain a new formu-
                lation of some parts of the classical theory. In particular, we show how
                to obtain partial differential equations, in terms of suitably introduced
                state variables, for the principal eigen-value of the differential equation
                (6)               u" + 2? (t) u =: 0, u (0) = u (1) = 0.
                Furthermore, we provide a new computational approach to variational
                problems with constraints.
                  In Chapter X, we consider dynamic programmingprocesses involving
                two decision-makers, essentially opposed to each other in their interests,
                This leads to the discussion of multi-stage games, and, in particular, to
                the very interesting class of games called “games of survival.’’ With the
                aid of some heuristic reasoning, we are able to obtain a new rationale
                for non-zero sum games, as a by-product.
                  The functional equations encountered in this domain have the general
                form
                (7)            f(b, p’) = Max Min [||te (6, 2,9, 9’) +
                                             G    G’
                    hO,P'7.47)F111 (0,097), Te(b, i. @ 7] 4G (g) dG’(9’)].
                They may be treated by means of the same general methods used in
                Chapter IV to discuss the equation in (3) above.
                  In the final chapter, we considera class of continuous decision processes
                which lead to non-linear differential equations of the form
                    AX:            v                                    ;
                (8) aMax[2i(¢;g)x7 + Bi(g)], x2 (0) = C1, 4 =1,2,..., N,
                             q   j=
               together with the corresponding equations derived from the discrete
               process.
                  These equations possess amusing connections with some classical
               non-linear equations, as we indicate.
                  In addition to a numberof exercises inserted for pedagogical purposes,
               we have included a cross-section of problems designed to indicate the
               scope of the application of the methods of dynamic programming.
                  There may be some whowill frown upon someof the less than profound
               subjects which are occasionally discussed in the exercises, and used to
               illustrate various types of processes. We are prepared to defend ourselves
               against the charges of lése majesté in a number of ways, but we prefer
               the two following. In thefirst place, interesting mathematics is where
                                                                                          XV
                             PREFACE
         you find it, sometimes in a puzzle concerning the bridges of Koenigsberg,
          sometimes in a problem concerning the coloring of maps, or perhaps the
         seating of schoolgirls, perhaps in the determining of winning play in
         games of chance, perhaps in an unexpected regularity in the distribution
         of primes. In the second place, all thought 1s abstract, and mathematical
         thought especially so. Consequently, whether we introduce our mathe-
         matical entities under the respectable sobriquets of A and B, or by the
         more charming Alice and Betty, or whether we speak of stochastic
         processes, or the art of gaming, it is the mathematical analysis that
         counts. Any mathematical study, such as this, must be judged, ultimately
         upon its intrinsic content, and not by the density of high-sounding
         pseudo-abstractions with which a text may so easily be salted.
           This completes our synopsis of the volume. Since the processes we
         consider, the functional equations which arise, and the techniques we
         employ are in the main novel and therefore unfamiliar, we have restricted
         ourselves to a moderate mathematical level in order to emphasize the
         principles involved, untrammeled by purely analytic details. Consistent
         with this purpose we have not penetrated too deeply into any one domain
         of application of the theory from either the mathematical, economic, or
         physical side.
           In every chapter we have attempted to avoid any discussion of deeper
         results requiring either more advanced training on the part of the reader
         or more high-powered analytic argumentation. Occasionally, as in
         Chapter VI and Chapter IX, we have not hesitated to waive rigorous
         discussion and proceed in a frankly heuristic manner.
           In a contemplated second volume on a higher mathematical level, we
         propose to rectify some of these omissions, and present a number of
         topics of a more advanced character which we have either not mentioned
         at all here, mentioned in passing, or sketched in bold outline. It will
         be apparent from the text how much remains to be done.
           In this connection it is worth indicating a huge, important, and
         relatively undeveloped area into which this entire volume represents
         merely a small excursion. This is the general study of the computational
         solution of multi-dimensional variational problems. Specifically we may
         pose the general problem as follows: Given a process with an associated
         variational problem, how do weutilize the special features of the process
         to construct a computational algorithm for sclving the variational
         problem ?
           Dynamic programming is designed to treat multi-stage processes
         possessing certain invariant aspects. The theory of linear programming
         is designed to treat processes possessing certain features of linearity, and
         the elegant “simplex method” of G. Dantzig to a large extent solves
         XVI
                                          PREFACE
             the problem for these processes. For certain classes of scheduling pro-
             cesses, there are a variety of iterative and relaxation methods. In particu-
             lar, let us note the methods of Hitchcock, Koopmans, and Flood for
             the Hitchcock-Koopmans transportation problem, and the “flooding
             technique” of A. Boldyreff for railway nets. Furthermore, there is the
             recent theory of non-linear programming of H. Kuhn and A. W. Tucker
             and E. Beale. The study of computational techniques is, however, in
             its infancy.
               Let us now discuss briefly some pedagogical aspects of the book. We
             have taken as our audienceall those interested in variational problems,
             including mathematicians,statisticians, economists, engineers, operations
             analysts, systems engineers, and so forth. Since the interests of various
             members of this audience overlap to only a slight degree, some partsof
             the book will be of greater interest to one group than another.
               As a mathematics text the volume is suitable for a course on the
             advanced calculus level, either within the mathematics department
             proper, or in conjunction with engineering or economics departments,
             in connection with courses in applied mathematics or operationsresearch.
               For first courses, or first readings, we suggest the following programs:
                      Mathematician:     Chapters I, II, HI, 1V, 1X, X
                      Economist:         Chapters I, II, III, V, [x
                      Statistician:      Chapters I, II, III, 1X, X, XI
                      Engineer:          Chapters I, II, III, 1X
                      Operations Analyst: Chapters I, II, III, V, 1X, X
               Finally, before ending this prologue, it is a pleasure to acknowledge
             my indebtedness to a number of sources: First, to the von Neumann
             theory of games as developed by J. von Neumann, O. Morgenstern, and
             others, a theory which shows how to treat by mathematical analysis
             vast classes of problems formerly far out of the reach of the mathe-
             matician—andrelegated, therefore, to the limbo of imponderables—and,
             simultaneously, to the Wald theory of sequential analysis, as developed
             by A. Wald, D. Blackwell, A. Girshick, J. Wolfowitz, and others, a
             theory which shows the vast economyofeffort that may be effected by
             the proper consideration of multi-stage testing processes; second, to a
             numberof colleagues and friends who have discussed various aspects of
             the theory with me and contributedto its clarification and growth.
               Many of the results in this volume were obtained in collaboration
             with fellow mathematicians. The formulation of games of survival was
             obtained in conjunction with J. P. LaSalle; the results on the optimal
             inventory equation were obtained together with I. Glicksberg and O.
                                                                           XVI
                                     PREFACE
            Gross; the results on the continuous gold-mining process in Chapter VIII
            and the results in Chapter VII concerning specific bottleneck processes
            were obtained together with S. Lehman; a number of results obtained
            with H. Osborn on the connection between characteristics and Euler
            equations, and on the convergence of discrete gold-mining processes to
            the continuous versions will not appear in this volume. Nor shall we
            include a study of the actual computational solution of many of the
            processes discussed below,in which we have been engaging in conjunction
            with S. Dreyfus.
              I should particularly like to thank I. Glicksberg, O. Gross and A.
            Boldyreff who read the final manuscript through with great care and
            made a number of useful suggestions and corrections, and S. Karlin
            and H. N. Shapiro who have done much valuable work in this field and
            from whose many stimulating conversations I have greatly benefited.
              Finally, I should like to record a special debt of gratitude to O. Helmer
            and E. W. Paxson who early appreciated the importance of multi-stage
            processes and who, in addition to furnishing a number of fascinating
            problemsarising naturally in various important applications, constantly
            encouraged me in my researches.
              Aspecial note should be madehere of the fact that most of the mathe-
            maticians cited above are either colleagues at The RAND Corporation,
            or are consultants. Our work has been conducted under a broad research
            program for the United States Air Force.
              Santa Monica, Caltfornia              RICHARD BELLMAN
           XVll
                                          Contents
             PREFACE .
                                                                               vill
                                       CHAPTER I
                         A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
             SECTION
              1.1   Introduction .              ,
              ]     A multi-stage allocation process.
                    Discussion .     ;
              ]
                    Functional equation approach                                 NOP
              ]
              ]    Discussion .
                                                                                 Ne)
              ]
                   A multi-dimensional maximization problem.
                                                                               10
              ]
                   A “smoothing” problem .
                                                                               1]
              ]    Infinite stage approximation .      ;
              ]                                                                12
                   Existence and uniqueness theorems .
              ]                                                                16
                   Successive approximations.
                                                                               16
              ]
                   Approximation in policy space           .
              ]                                                                19
                   Properties of the solution—I: Convexity.
              ]    Properties of the solution—II: Concavity                    20
              ].                                                               22
                   Properties of the solution—III: Concavity .
              ]                                                                29
                   An “‘ornery’’ example .
              ]                                                                26
                   A particular example—I.
              ]                                                                28
                   A particular example—II
              ]                                                                29
                   Approximation and stability .
                                                                               30
              ]
                   Time-dependent processes
              ]                                                                dl
                   Multi-activity processes       ,     ;
              ]                                                                33
                   Multi-dimensional structure theorems ;      ,
                                                                               34
              ]
                   Locating the unique maximum of a concave function
              ]
                                                                               37
                   Continuity and memory .
                                                                               38
              ]
                   Stochastic allocation processes
              ]                                                                39
                   Functional equations
                                                                               40
              ]
                   Stieltjes integrals .      ,
                                                                               40
                   Exercises and research problems
                                                                               o9
                   Bibliography and comments
                                                                              XIX
                                            CONTENTS
                                         CHAPTER II
                     A STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
              SECTION
               2.1  Introduction. ..... Soe ee ee ee ee ee ee)                     «66M
               2.2  Stochastic gold-mining. .... tee eee ee ee ee)                 «661
               2.3  Enumerative treatment .........2... 2... 62
               2.4  Functional equation approach    .........4.2... «63
               2.5  Infinite stage approximation ............. .                   63
               2.6  Existence and uniqueness    ............... 64
               2.7  Approximation in policy space and monotone convergence .       60
               2.8  Thesolution ..... 6)
               2.9  Discussion... .. 1. 1. ee ee ee eee ee ee «69
               2.10 Some generalizations   ...........4.. ... 69
               2.11 The form off(x,y)... 2...                   tee ee ee 6
               2.12 The problem for a finite number of stages toe ee ee ew ew      TD
               2.13 A three-choice problem   ...... 2... 6 ee eee 74
               2.14 Astability theorem ..............0424. . 16
                    Exercises and research problems   ........ wee 47
                    Bibhography and comments .......... wee. 19
                                        CHAPTER III
                               THE STRUCTURE OF DYNAMIC
                                 PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
              3.1   Introduction... .             Done eee ee ee ew we) «BI
              3.2   Discussion of the two preceding processes  ........ 81
              3.3   The principle of optimality. ....                      .. .   883
              3.4   Mathematical formulation—I. A discrete deterministic process 83
              3.5   Mathematical formulation—II. A discrete stochastic process    85
              3.6   Mathematical formulation—III. A continuous deterministic
                    process  ...                    Soe  ee ew ee ee ew ew 8B
              3.7   Continuous stochastic processes. toe ee ee eee we             BT
              3.8   Generalizations...          Doe ee ee ee . . 87
              3.9   Causality and optimality .  Done eee eee ee ee ee BT
              3.10 Approximation in policy space .............                    88
                    Exercises and research problems   ............ 90
                    Bibliography and comments ............. . 115
             XX
                                              CONTENTS
                                          CHAPTER IV
                         EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
              SECTION
                4.1  Introduction. ..............2.2.0 084 116
                4.2  <A fundamental inequality    Boe ee ee ee 117
                4.3  Equations of typeone...............084 119
               4.4   Equations of typetwo. ............. 20084 121
               4.5   Monotone convergence. ......... 26.28.2800. 122
               4.6   Stability theorems. ............ 50.0888. 123
               4.7   Some directions of generalization ........4.... 124
               4.8   An equation of the third type. ..........4... 125
               4.9   An ‘optimal inventory” equation. ...... ww ee . 129
                     Exercises and research problems    ............ 132
                     Bibliography and comments .........2..0442-. 151
                                          CHAPTER V
                           THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
               5.1   Introduction... .... 1. ee ee ee 152
               5.2   Formulation of the general problem. .......... 153
                     A. Finite total time period. . ..........2.42.. 154
                     B. Unbounded time period—discounted cost... .... 156
                     C.  Unbounded time period—partially expendable items . . 156
                     D. Unbounded time period—oneperiod lag in supply . . . 156
                     E. Unbounded time period—two period lag ...... . 157
               5.3   Acsimple observation   .........2.4.. 2... . 157
               5.4   Constant stock level—preliminary discussion... .. . . 158
               5.5   Proportional cost—one-dimensional case. . ....... 159
               5.6   Proportional cost—multi-dimensional case ........ 164
               o.7   Finite time period.  . .... 1... ee ee ee ee 166
               5.8   Finite trme—multi-dimensional case. . ......... 169
               5.9   Non-proportional penalty cost—red tape. ........ 169
               5.10 Particular cases. 2.  2 1         ee ee171
               5.11 The form of the general solution    Se ee ee ee ee 171
               9.12 Fixed costs. 2... 2.         ee ee172
               5.13 Preliminaries to a discussion of more complicated policies . 173
               5.14 Unbounded process—one period time lag. . ....... 173
               9.15 Convex cost function—unbounded process ........ 176
                     Exercises and research problems    .........2... 178
                     Bibliography and comments ............-. 182
                                                                                    XXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHAPTER VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS IN MULTI-STAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRODUCTION PROCESSES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Introduction. .................08.8. 183
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A general class of multi-stage production problems                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ... . 184
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Discussion of the preceding model. ........2.2.. 187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Functionalequations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........2.2.2.2...8848 188
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Acontinuous version                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...........2.2 880848 189
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Notation. . 2... 1... ee ee ee ee 191
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dynamic programming formulation. .......... 192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The basic functional equation. ............. 192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The resultant nonlinear partial differential equation. . . . 193
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.10 Application of the partial differential equation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...... 193
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.11 A particularexample ..............2048-4. 194
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.12 Adual problem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ................2. 0408-4 197
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.13 Verification of the solution givenin§10......2... 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.14 Computational solution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...........2.2.4.2.2.. 202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.15 Nonlinear problems... ..........2.20884 203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Exercises and research problems                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ............ 204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bibliography and comments ..........2..246+4 205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHAPTER VII
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Introduction... .. 1... ee ee ee ee ee 207
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Preliminaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .. 2... 0... ee ee we ee es 209
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Delta-functions. . .. 1... ee ee ee 211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The solution... . 1... ee ee ee ee ee 211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NNN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OTR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The modified w solution. ......4.2.2.2.22..20e848.8 214
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The equilibrium solution. . ........... 846-4 215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A short-time w solution ........2.2.2.24288848 217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NQWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Description of solution and proof. .......4.2.4.. 218
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bibliography and comments ..........2.2.2.. 221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHAPTER VIII
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Introduction... 1... 1 1 we ee ee ee es 222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Continuous versions—I: A differential approach’. .... 223
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Continuous versions—II: An integral approach. ..... 224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONTENTS
                                                                               SECTION
                                                                                      8.4                               Preliminary discussion. . ...... 1... ee ee ee 224
                                                                                      8.5                               Mixing atapoint..............2 0.020084 226
                                                                                      8.6                               Reformulation of the gold--mining process                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........ 227
                                                                                      8.7                              Derivation of the differential equations                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......... 227
                                                                                      8.8                              The variational procedure ...........2..2.48. 228
                                                                                      8.9                              The behavior of Ki... .. 1... 2. eee ee 229
                                                                                      8.10 The solution forT =co............2048. . 230
                                                                                      8.11 Solution for finite total time ..........4.2.. . 231
                                                                                      8.12 The three-choice problem                                                                                                                                                                         ...........2.4.. . 233
                                                                                      8.13 Some lemmas and preliminary results .......... 234
                                                                                      8.14 Mixed policies                                                                                                               .             ..........-22.24. wee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          285
                                                                                      8.15 The solution for infinite time, D >0O0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......2.2.. 236
                                                                                      8.16 D<0........0..224. Loe ee ee 240
                                                                                     8.17 The caserzs =r,                                                                                                                             .            2.            1             ee ee ee ee ee 241
                                                                                     8.18 Nonlinear utility—two-choice problem. ......... 242
                                                                                                                       Bibliography and comments ............4.-. 244
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHAPTER IX
                                                                                                     A NEW FORMALISM’'IN THE CALCULUS OF VARIATIONS
                                                                                                                       Introduction... 2... . 1 ee ee ee 245
                                                                                                        =
                                                                                           wo
                                                                                                                      Anew approach                                                                                                  ....... 2... ee ee ee ee 246
                                                                                                        BDO
                                                                                           OO
                                                                                                                       Max |,F(x,y)dt 2... 0 ee ee ee ee ee 248
                                                                                                        ©
                                                                                          Oo
                                                                                                                                   y                        JO
                                                                                                                      Discussion. .......4.4.424. we ee ee ee 251
                                                                                                        me
                                                                                          ©
                                                                                                                      The two-dimensional case                                                                                                                                             .             ...... 4. ee ee ee 251
                                                                                                        OF
                                                                                          Co
                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                       Max | F(x, y)dt                                                                                                            2... ee ee ee 252
                                                                                                        Oo
                                                                                          CO
                                                                                                                                   y                        JO
                                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                             .7                       Max | F (x, y) dt under the constraintO<y<in ... . 253
                                                                                          CO
                                                                                                                                   y                        JO
                                                                                              .8                      Computational solution                                                                                                                                 .......2..2... . ee « 254
                                                                                          ©
                                                                                              .9                      Discussion... . 1. 1 ee ee ee ee ee 255
                                                                                          WO
                                                                                             .10 Anexample ..... 1... ee ee ee ee ee 256
                                                                                          OH
                                                                                              .11 A discrete version. . . ... 1. ee ee ee ee ee 258
                                                                                          DM
                                                                                              .12 A convergence proof. . . . 2... 6 6 eee ee es 260
                                                                                          OW
                                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                             13 Max | F(x,y,f)dt                                                                                                                                                0...263
                                                                                          OO
                                                                                                                                   y                       JO
                                                                                             .14 Generalization and discussion. . ......... . . . 264
                                                                                          Oo
                                                                                             .15 Integral constraints .                                                                                                                                         .             2... 2 1 ee eee ee ee 265
                                                                                             .16 Further remarks concerning numerical solution. . . .. . 266
                                                                                              .17 Eigenvalue problems                                                                                                                                           ......... 2-22-2486. 267
                                                                                          mow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XX111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  268
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.18 The first formulation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                269
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            An approximatesolution .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Second formulation .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ©                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Discrete approximations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             27)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Successive approximation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Monotone approximation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                272
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       273
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24 Uniqueness of solution .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          273
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Woe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20 Minimum maximum deviation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Exercises and research problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      282
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bibhography and comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHAPTER X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             283
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Introduction .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                284
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A single-stage discrete game§
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   285
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The min-max theorem .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          286
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Continuous games.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                287
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Finite resources.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             287
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Games of survival .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                288
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pursuit games
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             289
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      General formulation .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       291
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The principle of optimality and functional equations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                292
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          More general process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   294
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A basic lemma .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           295
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Existence and uniqueness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        297
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.138
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Proof of results .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             299
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Alternate proof of existence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Successive approximations in general
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Effectiveness of solution .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Further results .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              One-sided min-max .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Existence and uniqueness for games of survival |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             306
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           An approximation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Non-zero-sum games — games of survival                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          307
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             308
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           An approximate solution .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Loe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Proof of the extended min-max theorem .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3809
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A rationale for non-zero sum games.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             310
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Exercises and research problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bibhography and comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          315
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XX1V
                                                                                                                                                 CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                     CHAPTER XI
                                                                                              MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                             SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .     3l7
                                             11.1                  Introduction. ..........2..204.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .      d3l7
                                             11.2                  Markovian decision processes . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .      .     319
                                             11.3                  Notation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .     320
                                             11.4                  A lemma.                                                    toe            ee eee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .      .     dal
                                             11.5                  Existence and uniqueness—I . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .     d24
                                             11.6                 Existence and uniqueness—II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .      325
                                             11.7                  Existence and uniqueness—III .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .       .     325
                                             11.8                 The Riccati equation                                                                              Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .       .     326
                                             11.9                 Approximation in policy space .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .       .     328
                                             11.10 Discrete versions .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .       .     330
                                             11.11 The recurrence relation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .       .     332
                                             11.12 Min-max. ..............8.0848
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .     332
                                             11.13 Generalization of a Von Neumann result. .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .     dd4
                                                                  Exercises and research problems
                                                                  Bibliography and comments                                                                                                                                                                 .       .     336
                                             Index of applications                                                                                                                                                                                                  .     338
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .     339
                                            Name and subject index .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AXV
     DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING
                                         CHAPTER I
                          AMulti-Stage Allocation Process
                  § 1. Introduction
                In this chapter we wish to introduce the reader to a representative
              class of problems lying within the domain of dynamic programming and
              to the basic approach weshall employ throughout the subsequent pages.
                To begin the discussion we shall consider a multi-stage allocation
              process of rather simple structure which possesses manyof the elements
              common to a variety of processes that occur in mathematical analysis,
              in such fields as ordinary calculus and the calculus of variations, and
              in such applied fields as mathematical economics, and in the study of
              the control of engineering systems.
                We shall first formulate the problem in classical terms in order to
              illustrate some of the difficulties of this straightforward approach. To
              circumvent these difficulties, we shall then introduce the fundamental
              approach used throughout the remainderof the book, an approach hased
              upon the idea of imbedding any particular problem within a family of
              similar problems. This will permit us to replace the original multi-
              dimensional maximization problem by the problem of solving a system
              of recurrence relations involving functions of much smaller dimension.
                As an approximation to the solution of this system of functional
              equations we are lead to a single functional equation, the equation
              (1)    f(x) =   Max [g(y) +h(x—y) +flay + 6 (x —y))].
                             Osy<a2
              This equation will be discussed in some detail as far as existence and
              uniqueness of the solution, properties of the solution, and particular
              solutions are concerned.
                Turning to processes of more complicated type, encompassing a greater
              range of applications, we shall first discuss time-dependent processes
              and then derive some multi-dimensional analogues of (1), arising from
              multi-stage processes requiring a number of decisions at each stage.
              These multi-dimensional equations give rise to some difficult, and as
              yet unresolved, questions in computational analysis.
                In the concluding portion of the chapter we consider somestochastic
                                                                                 3
                                            A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                    versions of these allocation processes. As we shall see, the same analytic
                    methods suffice for the treatment of both stochastic and deterministic
                    processes.
                          §2. A multi-stage allocation process
                       Let us now proceed to describe a multi-stage allocation process of
                    simple but important type.
                       Assume that we have a quantity x which we divide into two non-
                    negative parts, y and x —y, obtaining from the first quantity y a
                    return of g (y) and from the second a return of h (x — y).1 If we wish
                    to perform this division in such a way as to maximizethetotal return
                    we are led to the analytic problem of determining the maximum of
                    the function
                    (1)                          R, (x, vy) = gly) +h (x—y)
                    for all y in the interval [0, x]. Let us assume that g and / are continuous
                    functions of x for all finite x > 0 so that this maximum will alwaysexist.
                       Consider now a two-stage process. Suppose that as a price for obtaining
                    the return zg (y), the original quantity y is reduced to ay, where a is a
                    constant between 0 and 1, O<.a <1, and similarly x — y 1s reduced
                    to b(x — y), O<b <1,as the cost of obtaining (x — y). With the
                    remaining total, ay + b(x —~y), the process is now repeated. We set
                    (2)                   ay + b(x—y) = % = ¥,4+ (41 —N),
                    for 0 < y, < %,, and obtain as a result of this new allocation the return
                                                                                                               two-
                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                    for
                                                                                          return
                                                                                  total
                                                                            The
                                                                   stage.
                                                         second
                                                   the
                                               at
                               h(x,—y,)
                            +
                      (vi)
                    g
                    stage process is then
                    (3)        Re (%, ¥, V1) = gly) + h(x —y) + 8 (v1) + 4 (41 — 41)
                    and the maximum return is obtained by maximizing this function of
                   y and y, over the two-dimensional region determined by the inequalities
                    (4)                                   a.  0O<y<x
                                                          b O<y,<x
                       Let us turn our attention now to the N-stage process where we repeat
                       1 The units of the return are, in this case, different from the units of x. Thus,
                    for example, + may bein dollars, and g (y) may be man-hoursof service from machines
                   purchased with the y dollars. In other cases, occurring in multi-stage investment
                   problems, or multi-stage production problems, this will not be so, in that the units
                   of the return will be the sameas that of the resources, or a mixture of both situations
                    will occur. We are considering the simplest case here.
                    4
                     A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
          the above operation of allocation N times in succession. The total return
                                 be
                             then
                          will
                     process
                N-stage
             the
          from
          (5)   Ry(%*,¥, Vare++, n-1) = &(¥) + A(x —y) + 8 (Nn)
                + h(%,y— 41) +... + g (yw—-1) + A (xn -1— yw -1),
          where the quantities available for subsequent allocation at the end of
          the first, second, ..., (NW — l)st stage are given by
                 =ay+b(x—y),0<yxx,
             %
          (6)
             Xe  = ay, + b(%,—), OS WH,
             XN-1 = Ayn—-2+ 0 (xn-~2—Yn-2),
                             O<yn-2<%Nn-2,  O<yn-1<%N-1
          The maximum return will be obtained by maximizing the function Ry
          over the N-dimensional region in the space of the variables y, y,,...,
          yn-1, described by the relations in (6).
            § 3. Discussion
           In setting out to solve this problem, the temptation is, quite naturally,
          to use calculus. If the absolute maximum occursinside the region, which
          is to say if all the y; satisfy the strict inequalities 0 < yi < x, and if
          the functions g(x) and A(x) possess derivatives, we obtain for the
          determination of the maximizing y; the system of equations,
                                  0
                                =
                            yn-1)
                          —
                      (4n-1
                   —M
              (vw-1)
             g’
          (1)
                                                     0
                                                   =
                                                 -1)
                                               yn
                                           -1—
                                         (xn
                                       hh’
                                      Ob)
                                    —
                                  (a
                                +
                              -2)
                            Vn
                          —
                      (4n~2
                    fh’
                   —
                ~2)
              (yw
            g’
            g’ (vy) + A’ (x — y) + (a@— Ob) h(4, — yi) +... = 0,7
         upon taking partial derivatives. However, in the absence of this know-
         ledge, since we are interested not in Jocal maxima, but in the absolute
         maximum, we must also test the boundary values y; = 0.and x:, and
         all combinations of boundary values and internal maxima. Furthermore,
         if the solution of the equationsin (1) is not unique, we must run through
         a set of conditions sufficient to ensure our having a maximum and not
                                                       D
                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
         a minimum or a mere local maximum.It is evident that for problems
         of large dimension, whichis to say for processes involving a large number
         of stages, a systematic procedure for carrying out this program 1s urgently
         required to keep the problem from getting out of hand.
           Suppose that we abdicate as an analyst in the face of this apparently
         formidable task and adopt a defeatist attitude. Turning to the succor
         of modern computing machines, let us renounce all analytic tools.
         Consider, as a specific example, the problem posed by a 10-stage process.
         Then, if we wish to go about the determination of the maximum
         in a rudimentary fashion by computing the value of the function
         Rig = Rio (V, V1, - ++, Vo) at Suitably chosen lattice points, we may pro-
         ceed to divide all the intervals of interest, O< y<ix,0<y,<%,...,
         O<Vo<%o, into, say, ten parts, and compute the value of Ry) at each
         of the 10° points obtained in this manner. 10!° is, however, a number
         that commandsrespect. Even the fastest machine available today or in
         the near future, will still require an appreciable time to determine the
         solution in this manner.
           To give someidea of the magnitude of 10'°, note that if the machine
         took one second for the calculation of R,, at a lattice point, storage and
         comparisonwithothervalues, thecomputationof 101°valueswouldrequire
         2.77 million hours; if one millisecond, then 2.77 thousand hours; if one
         micro-second, then 2.77 hours. This last seems fairly reasonable. Observe,
         however, that 1f we consider a 20-stage process, we must multiply any
         such value by 10?1e., 102° = 10!°- 1019,
           Needless to say, there are various ingenious techniques that can be
         employed to cut this time down. Nonetheless, the method sketched
         above is still an unwieldy and inelegant method of attack.
           Furthermore, it should be realized that if we are sufficiently interested
         in the solution of the above decision process to engage in computations,
         we will, in general, wish to compute the answernot only for one particular
         value of x, but for a range of values, not only for one set of values of
         a and 6 but for a set of values, and not only for one set of functions
         g and h, but for a class of functions. In other words, we will perform a
         sensitivity analysts or stability analysis of the solution. Any suchsensi-
         tivity analysis attempted by the above methods will run into fairly
         large computing times.
           One of the aspects of the situation viewed in these terms which is
         really disheartening is that this problem is, after all, only the conse-
         quence of a very, almost absurdly, simple version of an applied problem.
         It is clear that any modification of the problem in the direction of
         realism, say subdivision of x into more than two parts, which is to say
         an increase in the number of activities we can engage in, or an increase
         6
                                             A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                     in-the types of resources, will increase the computing time at an expo-
                     nential rate.
                        Furthermore, as we have pointed out in the Preface, we must realize
                     that the essential purpose in formulating many of these mathematical
                     models of the universe, economic, physical, biologic, or otherwise, is not
                     so much to calculate numbers, which are in manycases of dubious value
                     because of the lack of knowledge of some of the basic constants and
                     functions involved, but rather to determine the stvucture of the solution.
                     Concepts are, in many processes, more important than constants.
                        The two, however, in general go hand-in-hand. If we have a thorough
                    understanding of the process, we have means, through approximation
                     techniques of various sorts, of determining the constants we require.
                    Furthermore, in the processes occurring in applications, of such enormous
                    complexity that trial and error computation is fruitless, it is only by
                    having an initial toe-hold on the solution that we can hope to use com-
                    puting machines effectively.
                       Going back to the idea of the intrinsic structure of a solution, we may
                    ask whatit is that we really wish to know if we are studying a process
                    of this type. Naturally, we would like to obtain the point(y, yi, ..., yn)
                    at which the maximum occurs, and any solution must furnish this. But
                    from the point of view of a person carrying out the process, all that is
                    really required at any particular stage of the process is the value of y
                    in terms of x, the resources available, and N, the number of stages
                    ahead; that is to say, the allocation to be made when the quantity
                    available is x and the numberof stages of the process remainingis N.
                    Viewed as a multi-stage process, at each stage a one-dimensional choice
                    is made, a choice of y in the interval [0, x]. It follows 2 that there should
                    be a formulation of the problem which preserves this dimensionality
                    and saves us from becoming bogged down in the complexities of multi-
                    dimensional analysis.
                          § 4. Functional equation approach
                       Taking this as our goal, namely the preservation of one-dimensionality,
                    let us proceed as follows. We first observe that the maximum total return
                    over an N-stage process depends only upon WN and the initial quantity x.
                    Let us then define the function,
                    (1)   fw (x) = the maximum return obtained from an N-stage process
                                      starting with an initial quantity x, for N=1,2,...,
                                      and x > 0.
                       2 As an application of the useful principle of wishful thinking.
                                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                We have
                                                                                ..
                                                                             3,
                                                                          2,
                                                                       =
                                                                    N
                                                           yn-1),
                                                      ...,
                                                   y,
                                               (x,
                                            Ry
                                       Max
                                    =
                                (x)
                             Jw
                (2)
                                      {y, vs}
                with
                (3)                  fi(%) = Max [g(y) + A(x —y)]j.
                                               O<y<r
                   Ourfirst objective is to obtain an equation forf, (x) in termsoff, (x).
                Considering the two-stage process, we see that the total return will be
                the return from the first stage plus the return from the second stage,
                at which stage we have an amount ay + b (x — y) left to allocate. It is
                clear that whatever the value of y choseninitially, this remaining amount,
                ay + b(x—vyy), must be used in the best possible manner for the re-
                maining stage, if we wish to obtain a two-stage allocation which
                maximizes.
                   This observation, simple as it is, is the key to all of our subsequent
                mathematical analysis. It is worthwhile for the reader to pause here a
                moment and make sure that he really agrees with this observation,
                which has the deceptive simplicity of a half-truth.
                   It follows that as a result of an initial allocation of y we will obtain
                a total return of f, (ay + b (x —y)) from the second stage of our two
                stage process, if y, is chosen optimally. Consequently, for the total
                return from the two stage process resulting from the initial allocation
                of y, we have the expression
                (4)        Rz (x, ¥, V1) = B(y) th(x—y) +fi (ay + 0 (x — y)).
                   Since y is to be chosen to yield the maximum of this expression, we
                derive the recurrence relation
                (5)     fe (x) =   Max [g(y) + 4(*—y) +fi (ay + 6 (x — y))],
                                 O<yse
                connecting the functions f, (x) and f,(x). Using precisely the same
                argumentation for the N-stage process, we obtain the basic functional
                equation
                (6)    fiw (x) =  Max [g (y) + 4(%—y) +fw-1 (ay + 6 (x — y))]
                                 O<sys2
                for N > 2, with f, (x) defined as in (3) above.
                  Starting withf, (x), as determined by (3), we use (6) to computef/f,(x),
                which, in turn, repeating the process, yields /; (x), and so on. At each
                step of the computation, we obtain, not only fx (x), but also yz (x), the
                optimal allocation to be made at the beginning of a k-stage process,
                starting with an amount x.
                8
                                                          A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                              The solution, then, consists of a tabulation of the sequence of functions
                          {yx (x)} and {fx (*)} forx >0,k = 1,2,....
                              Given the sequence of functions {y; (x)}, the solution of a specific
                          problem, involving a given N and a given x has the form
                                                              y
                                                                N
                          (7)                                       (x),
                                                       SS]
                                                                N-
                                                                      1(ay + b (x — ¥)),
                                                       1
                                                      SS]
                                                              y
                                                                N-
                                                       2
                                                                      2 (ay, + 6 (x4 — V1)),
                                                      Se]     y
                                                    YN-1 = 491 (ayn—2 + b(xn-~2—¥ n-2)),
                          where (¥, V1, -.-, Yn -1) is a set of allocations which maximizesthetotal
                          N-stage return.
                              A digital computer may be programmedto print out the sequence of
                          values Y, V1, -.., Yn -1, in addition to tabulating the sequences { f; (x)}
                          and {yx (x)}.
                                  § 5. Discussion
                              The important fact to observe is that we have attempted to solve a
                          maximization problem involving a particular value of x and a particular
                          value of N by first solving the general problem involving an arbitrary
                          value of x and an arbitrary value of N. In other words, as we promised
                          in the first section, we have imbedded the original problem within a
                          family of similar problems. Weshall exploit this basic method of mathe-
                          matical analysis throughout the book.
                              Whatare the advantages of this approach? In thefirst place, we have
                          reduced a single N-dimensional problem to a sequence of N one-
                          dimensional problems. The computational advantagesof this formulation
                          are obvious, and weshall proceed in the next sections to show that there
                          are analytic advantages as well, as might be suspected. As weshall see,
                          we will be able to obtain explicit solutions for large classes of functions
                          g and h, which can be used for approximation purposes. This point will
                          be discussed again below. Furthermore, we will be able to determine
                          many important structural features of the solution even in those cases
                          where we cannot solve completely. The utilization of structural properties
                          of the solution and the reduction in dimension combine to furnish
                          computing techniques which greatly reduce the time required to solve
                          the original problem. Weshall return to this point in connection with
                          some multi-dimensional versions.
                                     A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                      § 6. A multi-dimensional maximization problem
                    Before proceeding to a more detailed theory of the processes described
                 above, let us digress for a moment and briefly present two further
                 applications of the general method.
                    For the first application, consider the problem of determining the
                 maximum of the function
                                                                 N
                 (1)
                                        F
                                          (x1,
                                               %2,
                                                   ...,%Nn)
                                                            ==
                                                                2X
                                                                   gi
                                                                      (xi)
                                                                          ,
                                                               i=l
                 over the region defined by
                 (2)                    (a) %, +X. t+... + XN =C,
                                        (b) x; > 0.
                   Each function g; (x) 1s assumed to be continuousfor all x > 0.
                   Since the maximum of F depends only upon c and N,let us define
                 the sequence of functions
                 (3)                  fn (c) = Max F (x1, %2,..., XN),
                                                 {ti}
                 for c >0 and N=1,2,....
                   Then, arguing as above, we have the recurrence relation
                 (4)              fn (c) = Max [gn (x) +fv-1(¢ —)],
                                           O<a<e
                for N = 2,3,..., with
                (5)                              Si (¢) = & (c).
                     §7. A “smoothing” problem
                   As the second application, let us consider the problem of determining
                the sequence {xx} which minimizes the function
                (1)      F(%1, %2, ..+, 4N) =
                                                                          ht (Xx — Xe -1).
                                                  Ms
                                                                        Mo
                                                    Ba (Xe -— 1) +
                                                  I
                                                                        I
                                                k
                                                   1                 k   I
                Here {7x} is a given sequence, %» = c a given constant, and we assume
                that the functions gz (x) and A; (x) are continuous for all finite x, and
                that gx (x), Ax (x) > co as | x | 0.
                   The genesis of this problem, explaining its name, will be discussed
                in the exercises.
                10
                                                              A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                 Let us define the sequence {fr (c)}, R = 1, 2,..., N, by the property
                            thatfr (c) is the minimum overall pr, ¥r+1, ..., *n of the function
                                                                      N                                    N
                            (2)                        Fr= 2 ge(XE—7x) + a Ni (Xk —Xe-1),
                                                                  k=R                                  k=R
                            where *rR-1 = C.
                                We have
                            (3)                          fx (c) == Min [gn (x — rw) + hy (x — )],
                            and
                            (4)              fr (c) = Min [gr (x —rr) + he(x—c) +frsi(%)),
                            for R=1, 2,...,N—1.
                                    § 8. Infinite stage approximation
                                Let us now return to the allocation process. The treatment we present
                            here serves as a prototype for the discussion of a number of multi-stage
                            processes, of diverse origin, but similar analytic structure.
                                If N is large, it is reasonable to consider as an approximation to the
                           N-stage process, the infinite stage process defined by the requirement
                           that the process continue indefinitely. Although an unbounded process
                           is always a physical fiction,? as a mathematical process it has many
                           attractive features. One immediate advantage of this approximation
                           lies in the fact that in place of the sequence of equations given by (4.6),
                           we now havethe single equation
                           (1)             f(x) = Max [g(y) +A(x—y) +flay + 6 (x —y))]
                                                          O<y<uz
                           satisfied byf(x), the total return of the process, with a single allocation
                           function y = y (x), determined by the equation.
                               To balance this, we encounter manyof the usualdifficulties associated
                           with infinite processes. It is, first of all, no longer clear that a maximum
                           exists rather than a supremum.This is to say, there may be noallocation
                           policy which actually yields the total return f(x). Furthermore, if we
                           wish to employ (1) in an unrestricted fashion to determine properties
                           of the infinite process, we must show that it possesses no extraneous
                           solutions. In other words, we must establish existence and uniqueness
                           theorems if this equation is to serve a useful purpose.
                               3  We shall occasionally use the word “‘physical’’ to describe the ‘‘real’’ world.
                           It should be interpreted to mean economic, biological, engineering, etc., depending
                           upon the background and interests of the reader.
                                                                                                                                                              1]
                                   A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                     § 9. Existence and uniqueness theorems
                  The result we obtain in this section is actually a special case of a
                moregeneralresult we shall derive in a later chapter. Repetition, however,
                no matter how dismaying as a social or literary attribute, is no great
                mathematical sin, and it is important to present the simpler case first,
                enabling the basic ideas to appear unimpeded bytechnicalities of lesser
                import.
                  Let us now demonstrate
                THEOREM 1. Let us assume that
                (1)    a. g(x) and h(x) are continuous functions of x for
                          x > 0, g (0) = A(0) = 0.
                       b. If m(x) = Max Max (/g(y) |, |A(y) |), and
                                      O<sy<z
                          c = Max (a, b), then & m(c® x) < coforallx > 0.
                                                n=0
                       c Ox<a<l1O<db<l.
                Under these assumptions, there is a unique solution to (8.1) which ts con-
                tinuous at x = 0, and has the value 0 at this point; moreover, this function
                1s continuous.
                  Before proceeding to the proof, let us digress for a moment and
                consider the important special case where g and / are both non-negative.
                The sequence {fw (x)} as given by (4.6) is a monotoneincreasing sequence,
                with boundedness a consequence of condition (1b), as we shall show
                below in a moment. Consequently, for all x > 0, fw (x) converges to a
                function f(x) as N -> oo.
                  Let us show that this function satisfies the equation
                (2)       f(x) = Sup [g(y) + h(x—y) +flay + 0 (x —y))].
                                  O<y<2
                To simplify our notation, let us set
                (3)         T(fiy)=ely) +h(x—y) +flay + b(x—y)).
                The basic recurrence relation is then
                (4)                    fu +1(%) = Max T (fn, 9).
                                                   O<y<z
                12
                                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                From (4) we obtain as a consequence of the monotonicity in N
                                                                                         >
                (5)                        f(x) 2 Max T(fy,y).
                                                   O<y<2z
                For any y in the interval (0, x], this means that the inequality
                (6)                           f(x) = (fy, y)
                holds. Letting N —oo, this yields
                (7)                           f(x) =2T(fy)
                for all y in [0, x], which, in turn, leads to the result
                (8)                        f(x) = Sup T(f,y).
                                                   Osy<2
                We cannot write Max since we have no guarantee that the
                                   O<ysz
                limit functionf(x) is actually continuousas a function of x.
                On the other hand, from (4) we also obtain
                (9)                     fu+i(%)< Sup T(f,y),
                                                    Osy<cz
                for all N, and thus
                (10)                       f(*)< Sup T(f,y).
                                                  OsyS2
                Comparing (8) and (10), we obtain (2).
                  One of the defects of this proof based solely upon monotonicity is
                that it does not yield the continuity of the limit function, a result which
                implies the existence of an optimal policy. This optimal policy is a
                function y (x) which yields the maximum in
                (11)                       f(x) = Max T(f,y),
                                                   OSysz
                when the maximum exists.
                  The existence of an optimal policy for the infinite process is directly
                of no particular importance computationally, or as far as applications
                are concerned. It is, however, of great importance in connection with
                the determination of the structure of optimal policies for the infinite
                process. Thus, indirectly, the question of the existence of continuous
                solutions is significant as far as numerical results are concerned, since
                the solution of the infinite process can be used as an approximation to
                the solution of the finite.
                  In order to establish the existence and uniqueness of a ‘continuous
                                                                                             13
                                                                                                                                                                                               A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                                                     solution of (11), we shall employ a technique that is applicable to a large
                                                                                      class of equations of this type, the method of successive approximations.
                                                                                      Weshall, however, encounter monotonicity arguments again in later
                                                                                      chapters.
                                                                                                   Turning to the recurrencerelations in (4), let us begin with the obser-
                                                                                     vation thatf; (x) is continuousfor all x > 0 by virtue of the assumptions
                                                                                     made concerning g(x) and A(x). It follows, inductively, that each
                                                                                     element of the sequence {fy (x)} is continuous. It is worth pointing
                                                                                     out, however, that the location of the maximizing y need not depend
                                                                                     continuously upon x. In other words, the policy is not necessarily a
                                                                                     continuous function of x. An example of this is given in § 15.
                                                                                                   Let yn (x) be a value of y which yields the maximum in (4). It is a
                                                                                     matter of indifference as to which value of y we choose, if there is more
                                                                                     than one value producing the maximum. Then we have
                                                                                     (12)                                                                                                                                 fy +1 (%) = T (fy, yy),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jn +2 (x) =m T (fw +1, YN +1),
                                                                                     and, as a consequence of the maximum property of the yy, the further
                                                                                     inequalities
                                                                                     (13)                                                                                               fy+1(*) = T (fy, yn) > T (fy, yn +1)
                                                                                                                                                                                        In +2(%) = T (fne3, Yve+1) > T (fn 41, yy).
                                                                                    These, in turn, yield
                                                                                    (14)                                                fn +1 (x) —fnw+2 (x) > T (fn, vv 41) — T (fn +1, yn 4-1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <T(fn, yu) — T (fw +1, Vn)
                                                                                                 The two inequalities combined yield the important estimate
                                                                                    (15)                               |   fv+1 (x) —f+2 (%) |<Max [|T (fw, yw +1) —T (fy+1, yn+1) |,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |T (fx, yw) — T (fy +1, yw) |].
                                                                                    Turning to the definition of TJ (f, y) given in (3), we see that
                                                                                    (16)                                                                            |      T (fx, yw) — T (fw +1, yw)|
                                                                                                                                                 = |fv (ayn + 0 (x — yw)) —fu +1 (ayn + 6 (x — yy))|
                                                                                                 Let us now define
                                                                                   (17)                                                                       un (x) =                                                     Max fw (z) —fv+i(z)|,N=1,2,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O<z<z
                                                                                    14
                                                                                                                                                                                                 A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                                                       Since ay + b (x — y) <cx for all y in (0, x], the relation in (16) yields
                                                                                       (18)                                                                                                                                                         Un+1(%) < un (cx).
                                                                                                    It remains to estimate u, (x). We have, referring to the equations
                                                                                      for f, (x) and f, (x), the relation
                                                                                      (19)                                                                         |   fx (*) —fe (x) |< Max [|fi (@y. + 6 (% —y,) |,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                fi (42 + 6 (% — ye) |] < m (cx),
                                                                                      using the definition of m (x) given in (1b).
                                                                                                    Hence we see that , (x) < m (cx), and thus, using (18), that uy (x)
                                                                                     <m(c¥+1 x). By virtue of our assumption concerning m (x) it follows
                                                                                      that 2 uy (x) converges for all x, and what is important, uniformly in
                                                                                                             N=1
                                                                                      any finite interval. The limit function f(x) = lm fy (x),in consequence,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N—oo
                                                                                     exists and is continuousfor all x. Furthermore, the uniformity of con-
                                                                                     vergence ensures that f(x) is a solution of (8.1).
                                                                                                   It remains to establish the uniqueness of the solution. Let F (x) be
                                                                                     any other solution which exists for all x and is continuous at x = 0,
                                                                                     with F (0) = 0.
                                                                                                   In the equation
                                                                                      (20)                                                                                                                                                f(x) = Max T(f,y),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O<y<2
                                                                                    let y = vy (x) bea value of y which yields the maximum,andlet w = w (x)
                                                                                    play the similar role in
                                                                                    (21)                                                                                                                                              F(x) =                                                      Max T(F,y).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Osyxsrz
                                                                                    Then, as above, we obtain the two inequalities,
                                                                                    (22)                                                                                                                                  f(*)=T(fy) 2 (fw)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F(x) =T(F,w) =T(F, y),
                                                                                   and, as before, this leads to
                                                                                   (23) |f(x) —F (x) |< Max[|T(f,y)—T(F,y) |, |T(fe)—T(F, 2)|).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <Max[|f(ay + 6(%—y)) —F(ay + b(x—y)) |,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |f(aw + b(x—w)) —F(aw + b(x—w)) |].
                                                                                  Let us now define
                                                                                   (24)                                                                                                                        u(x) = Sup |f(z)—F() |.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O<z<2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15
                               A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
              Since f(x) 1s continuousfor all x > 0 and F (x) is, by assumption, con-
              tinuous at x = 0, we see that u(x) is continuous at x = O and has the
              value 0 there.
                From (23) we obtain
              (25)                       u(x) <u (cx),
              whence, by iteration,
              (26)                       u(x) << u(cN x),
              for all N > 1. Since u(x) is continuous at x = 0 and uw (0) = 0, upon
              letting N — oo we obtain uw (x) < 0, and thus that f(x) = F (x). This
              completes the proof of the existence and uniqueness of a solution of the
              functional equation associated with the infinite process.
                   § 10. Successive approximations
                In considering the equation
              (1)                     f(x)= Max T(f,y),
                                             O<sy<cz
              we have shownthat a particular sequence of successive approximations
              converged to the unique solution which is continuous at x = 0 and
              zero there. It is important for both analytic and computational purposes
              to know that actually any sequence whose initial function satisfies
              certain simple requirements converges.
                The methods we have used above may also be employed to prove the
              following
              THEOREM 2. Let f, (x) satisfy the following conditions:
              (1)           a. fo (x) 18 continuous for x > 0.
                            b. fo (0) = 0.
              Then, tf the conditions of Theorem I are fulfilled, the sequence defined by
              (2)          fn+1(%) = Max T(fn,y),N =0,1,...,
                                      Osy<z
              converges to the solutionf (x) obtained above, uniformly in any finite interval.
                  § 11. Approximation in policy space
                We have employed above the classical technique of successive ap-
              proximations in order to obtain a solution to the nonlinear functional
              equation
              (1)                     f(x) = Max T(f,y).
                                              O<y<2z
              16
                          A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
              We now wish to exploit a certain duality which is present in these
            decision processes to show that we can choosethe initial approximation
            in such a way that we can always ensure this approximation being
            monotone. This means that we have uniformly better convergence with
            each iteration.
              Let us begin by introducing some terminology. Weshall call a sequence
            of allocations; 1.e., a sequence of admissible choices of y, a policy, and
            a policy which yields f(x) an optimal policy.
              The duality that exists in the theory of dynamic programmingarises
            from the interconnection between the functionsf(x) which measure the
            maximum return and the policies which yield these maximum returns.
            Actually a policy is a function, since a policy is a determination of y as
            a function of x. It is worthwhile nonetheless to preserve this terminology
            since it possesses certain advantages derived from intuition. If the policy
            is not unique, y will not be a single-valued function of x.
              It follows from the functional equation that a knowledge of f(x)
            yields y (x), and conversely any y (x) determines f(x), iteratively by
            means of the functional equation
            (2)                 f(4)=T (fy (x).
            Thus, for example, if the optimal policy consisted of the choice y = 0
            continually, f(x) would satisfy the functional equation
            (3)                 f(x) = h(x) +f(x),
            which would yield the result
            (4)                 f(x) = 2 Alo»x).
             As we have mentioned above, the purpose of ourinvestigation is not
            so much to determine f(x), which is really a by-product, but more
            importantly, to determine the structure of the optimal policy, which
            is to say to determine y (x).
             This leads to an important anduseful idea. Just as we can approximate
            in the space of the functions f(x), so we can approximate in the space
            of policies, y (x). Furthermore, in many ways, this is a more natural and
            simpler form of approximation. The advantage of this type of approxi-
            mation analytically is that it always leads to monotone approximations.
           From the standpoint of applications, it 1s by far the more natural
           approximation since it is usually the one part of the problem about
           which a certain amount is known as a result of experience.
             Let yo (x) be an initial guess for an optimal policy and let f, (x) be
                                                                  17
                               A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
              the return function derived from this policy function, which is to say
              that f. (x) satisfies the functional equation
              (5)                      fo (x) = L (fo, Vo (%)),
              an equation which wesolve iteratively. To improve yo (x), we determine
              y,(x) as a function of x which maximizes T (fo, y) for O<y< x.
              Assume for the momentthat y, (x) is itself continuousin x, (which need
              not necessarily be the case), and that the return function/, (x) computed
              using this policy is also continuous. This will always be the case, as we
              point out again below, under the assumptions we have made. We now
              continue in this way, generating a sequence of policies, {yn (x)}, and
              a sequence of return function, {fw (x)}.
                It is easy to show, utilizing the methods described in the foregoing
              sections, that under the assumptions we have made the sequence {fy (x)}
              is monotone increasing. A rigorous proof of the existence and con-
              vergence of the sequences {yy (x)} and {fw (x)} described above seems
              difficult to obtain. Consequently, we compromise for the following.
              THEOREM 3. Letfy (x) be the result of an initial approximation in policy
              space, that 1s,
              (6)                     fo (*) = T (for vo (x),
              where Vo (x) 1s any continuous function of x satisfying the conditions
              (7)                         OS(*%)<*.
              Under the assumptions of Theorem 1, the sequence defined by
              (8)         in+1(*) = Max T(fy,y),N =0,1,2,...,
                                     Osy<ux
              converges uniformly to the solution f (x) obtained, and this convergence ts
              monotone.
              PRroor. Let us demonstrate the monotonicity, which is the essential
              feature, first. We have
              (9)                  fi(*) = Max T(fo,¥).
                                           O<sy<z2z
              Comparing the definition of/, given in (5) with the definition off, above,
              we see that f, >fo for all values of x. From this it follows inductively
              that fyv+1 >fw for all values of x > 0.
                It remains to prove the continuity of the function f, (x) for x > 0.
              18
                                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                 The conditions upon g and / which we have imposed above show that
                 the formal series for fo (x)
                                                                      .--,
                                                                   +
                                                    HA(*—Yo)
                                                (Yo)
                                              8
                                           =
                                       (x)
                                    fo
                 (10)
                 obtained iteratively, converges uniformly in any finite interval and
                 represents a continuous function of x for x > 0, if yy (x) is a continuous
                 function of x.
                      § 12. Properties of the solution—I: Convexity
                   Let us now show that we can derive certain structural properties of
                 the optimal policy from various simple structural properties of the
                functions g and h. Thestructure of the optimal policy y (x) and that of
                the return function f(x) turn out to be intimately entwined.
                   Our first result in this direction is
                THEOREM 4. If, in addition to the assumptions in Theorem 1, we wmpose
                the conditions that g and h be convex functions of x, then f(x) will be a
                convex function, and for each value of x, y will equal 0 or x.
                ProoFr. The proof will be inductive. Since
                (1)                  fi (*) =   Max (g (y) + h(x — y))
                                              Osy<2z
                and g(y) +h(x—vy) is convex as a function of y for O< y< x, it
                follows that
                (2)                      fi (*) = Max (g (x), A(x) ),
                since the maximum of a convex function must occur at one of the
                end-points. As the maximum of two convex functions, /, (%) is convex.
                   Since g(y) + A(x — y) +f, (av + 6 (x —y)) is a convex function of
                y for y in [0, x] it follows by repetition of the above argument that
                (3)            Fs (x) = Max (g (x) + fi (ax), A(x) + fi (0%)),
                is a convex function of x. Wesee then, inductively that fy (x) 1s convex,
                and thus that the limit function f(x) 1s convex.
                   Turning to the equation f(x) =          Max T(f,y), the convexity off
                                                         O<y<2z
                reduces this to the simpler equation        ‘
                (4)             f(x) = Max (g (x) + f(ax), A (x) + f(6x),
                showing that y = 0 or x for each value of x. This equations is, sur-
                                                                                             19
                               A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
              prisingly, still a difficult equation to solve in general. We shall consider
              a particular case of it below.
                   § 13. Properties of the solution—II: Concavity
                Let us now demonstrate that an analogous result holds for the case
              where g and A are both strictly concave functions of x for x > 0.
              THEOREM 5. If, 1n addition, to the assumptions in Theorem 1, we impose
              the conditions that g and h be strictly concave functions of x, then f (x)
              will be a strictly concave function of x.
                In this case, the optimal policy will be unique.
              Proor. Let us consider the one-stage case first, and perform some
              simple calculations which will show us why the result should be true,
              before proceeding to a rigorous proof using a different and more general
              technique.
                We have
              (1)             fi(*) = Max [g(y) +4(x—y)].
                                      O<sy<z
              Since g and / arestrictly concave functions, the function g (y) + h (« — y)
              is a strictly concave function of y. There is, in consequence, a single
              maximum, which may, nonetheless, occur at an end point y = 0 or
              y = x. Let us suppose for the momentthat it occurs at an interior point,
              and that g and / possess second derivatives. Then,
              (2)                  fi (*) = g (y) + A(x —y)
              where y is determined as a function of x by meansof therelation
              (3)                      g’ (y) = hi’ (x —y).
              Differentiation of (2) yields
              (4)   fi’ (&) = (6 (vy) — A’ (x — y)) dy|dx +h’ (x —y) =H (x —y),
              and thus
              (5)               fi" (%) = h" (% — y) (I — dy/dx).
              Differentiating the relation in (3), we obtain
              (6)             g" (y) dy/dx = h" (x — y) (1 — dy/dx),
              which yields
              (7)           dy/dx = h" (x — y)/(g" (y) + h" (x —y)).
              20
                                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                This shows that 1 > dy/dx > 0, and thus,returningto (5), thatf,” (x) <0.
                   If the maximumis not actually inside, we can force it to be by various
                modifications of the functions g and # which prevent the maximum from
                ever being at y = Oory = x; e.g., by addition of a term « log y (x — y),
                where € is a Small positive quantity. We can then proceed induc-
                tively and establish the same result for all the members of the
                sequence fw (x). This is, however, a rather clumsy method which does
                not extend without pain to multi-dimensional problems. We shall
                therefore use a more elegant and simple method.
                LemMA 1. IfG (x, y) ts a concavefunction 4 of x and yfor x, y > 0, then
                f(x) as defined by
                (8)                        f(x) = Max (x,y)
                                                   O<ysz
                ts a concave function of x for x > 0.
                Proor. We have, for O<A< l,
                (9)       f(Ax+(1—A)z)=             —   Max        G(Ax + (1—A)z,¥).
                                                 O<y<Art+(l—A)z
                We mayreplace y by the quantity y = Ay, + (1 —A) v2 where y, and
                Vj, range independently over the intervals O< y,< 4,0<y,< 2. Then
                (10)  f(Ax + (L—A)2) =          Max G(Ax + (1—A)z,dy. + (L—A)y2).
                                              O<4y<2
                                              O<y¥ <2
                Since G (x, y) 1s concave in x and y, we have
                (11)  G(Ax + (1—A) 2,Ay1 + (1—A) ve) SAG (x, yx) + (L—A) G (2, y2)
                Hence
                (12)    f(Ax+(1—A)2) > Max [AG(x,91) + (1—A) G (2, ¥2)]
                                               O<y% <2
                                               O<¥, <2
                                            > A Max G(x,y1) +(1—A) Max G (z, y2)
                                                O<y, <2                     O<¥3 <2
                                            =Af(x) + (L—A)f(2).
                  Let us now apply this lemma to prove Theorem 5. It is easily verified
                that g (vy) + A(x —y) is a concave function of x and y if g and A are
                concave functions. This shows immediately that /f, («) is concave. Simi-
                larly, since f, (ay + 6(x—y)) is a concave function of x andy, /, (x)
                   4 Concavity in both x and y means the G (A #, + (1 —A) %, 491 + (1—A) yq) SA
                G (1, V1) + (1—A) G (#5, y_), for 0 SA <1.
                                                                                             21
                               A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
               as defined by the basic recurrence relation is a concave function. We
               thus proceed inductively and show that each function in the sequence,
               {fn (x)}, is a strictly concave function, and hence that the limit function
               is concave. That it is strictly concave follows from the strict concavity
               of g and A, using Lemma 1 upon the functional equation for f (x).
                 Once we have established the strict concavity off(x), the uniqueness
              of the maximizing y and thus of the optimal policy follows immediately.
              This completes the proof of Theorem 5.
                   § 14. Properties of the solution—III: Concavity
                 Let us now show that the assumption of concavity enables ustotell
              quite a bit more about the nature of the solution.
              THEOREM 6. Let us assume that
              (1)  a. g(x) and h(x) are both strictly concave for x > 0, monotone in-
                     creasing with continuous derivatives and that g (0) = h(0) = 0.
                  b. g’ (0)/(L — a) > A’ (0)/(1 — b), W’ (0) > g’ (co), b > a,
              Then the optimal policy has the following form:
              (2) a. y=xforO<x<x, where x ts the root of h’ (0) = g’ (x)
                     + (6 — a) g’ (ax) + (b—a) ag’ (a? x) +...
                  b. y = y (x) for x > x where y(x) 1s a function satisfying the in-
                     equalities O << y (x) <x, and y (x) ts the solution of
               3)    ag’ (y)A(x—y) + (@—4)f'(ay + b(x —y))= 0.
                Remark. We have given the solution for only one of the possible
              combinations of inequalities connecting g’ (0), h’ (0), 6 and a. It will be
              easily seen from the procedure below, that corresponding results hold
              for the other cases. Furthermore, the number of cases can be halved
              by the observation that the interchange of y and x —y results in an
              interchange of a and 0.
              Proor. Let us employ the method of successive approximations. Set
              (4)              fi(x) =Max [g(y) + 4 (*—9)].
                                        sysuz
              Since, by assumption, g’ (0) >’ (0), for small x, we have g’ (y) —
              h' (x —y) > 0, for y in the interval [0, x]. Hence g(y) + h(x —y) is
              monotone increasing in 0< y< x and the maximum occurs at y = x.
              As % increases, the equation g’ (y) —h’ (x —y) =0 will ultimately
              22
                                                         A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                          have a root at y = x, and then as ~x increases further a root inside the
                         interval [0, x]. The critical value of x is given as the solution of g’ (x) —
                          h' (0) = 0. This equation has precisely one solution, which wecall %,.
                          For x > x, let y, = y, (x) be the unique solution of g’ (y) = h’ (x — y).
                         The uniquenessof solution is a consequenceof the concavity assumptions
                         concerning g and A, and the existence of a solution is a consequence of
                         the continuity of g’ and h’.
                             Thus we have
                                                                                                         Mm,
                                                                                         O<x<
                                                                        (),
                                                                     g
                                                                =
                                                          (*)
                                                     fi
                         (5)
                                                                                                                          %y.
                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                  x
                                                                                           —y,),
                                                                                    A(x
                                                                               +
                                                                        (vi)
                                                                     g
                                                                =
                         and
                                                                                  <x,
                                                                      O<%
                                                     (x),
                                                 8"
                                            =
                                      (~)
                                 fi’
                         (6)
                                                                                                                                             yy),
                                                                                                                                        —
                                                                                                                                    (x
                                                                                                                                h'
                                                                                                                           =
                                                                                                                     91)
                                                                                                                —
                                                                                                         (%
                                                                                                       Wh
                                                                                                   +
                                                                                      dyifdx
                                                                               y,)]
                                                                          —
                                                                    (x
                                                                  Ff
                                                             —
                                                      (vi)
                                                 [g’
                                            =
                                                                %*.
                                                        x >
                                                 for
                         Since y; (x,) = 1, we see that/,’ (x) is continuous at x = x,, and hence,
                         for all values of x > 0. Furthermore f/f, (x) is a concave function of x;
                         cf. the analysis of § 11.
                             Now let us turn to the second approximation
                         (7)     fo(x) = Max [g(y) +A4(x*—y) +fi (ay + 6 (x —y)))].
                                                 O<y<ur
                         The critical function is now D (y) = g’ (y) —hW’ (x —y) + fl’ (av +
                         b (x —y)) (a —8). Since g’ (0) —A’ (0) + fy’ (0) (a — 8) = g' (0) —h' (0)
                         +g' (0) (a—b) >#'(0) [{(1 —a) (1 + a —5)/(1 —d)}1] > 0, we
                         see that D (y) 1s again positive for all y in [0, x] for small x. Hence the
                         maximum occurs in (7) at y = x for small x. As x increases, there will
                         be a first value of x where D (x) = 0. This value, x., is determined by
                         the equation g’ (x) = A’ (0) + (6 — a) fi’ (ax).                                        Comparing the two
                         equations
                         (8)                               g’ (x) = h(0)
                                                           g’ (x) = h’ (0) + (6 —a) fi’ (ax),
                         we see that 0 <x, < x.
                             Hence the equation for x, has the simple form
                         (9)                       g’ (x) = h (0) + (6 — a) g(ax).
                                                                                                                                            where
                                                                                                                                      %,,
                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                             x
                                                                                                                       for
                                                                                                            y,(x)
                                                                                                       =
                                                                                                    y
                                                                                           and
                                                                                     (7)
                                                                                in
                                                                           x,
                                                          O<x%<
                                                   for
                                               x
                                           =
                                       y
                             Thus
                         v2
                             (x)
                                    1s
                                        the
                                                unique
                                                              solution
                                                                             of
                         (10)                      ge’ (vy)  = A(x —y) + (8 —a)fi’ (ay + b(x — y)).
                                                                                                                                                  23
                                                                                                                                          A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                               Furthermore
                                                               (1)                             fo (@)=e'(*),                                                                     ON*cx,
                                                                                                                          = h' (x — ye) + bfi’ (av_ + 5 (x — 2),                                                                                                                                                            x Xe,
                                                              and f,’ (x) 1s continuous at « = %».
                                                                        Comparing (10) with the equation g’ (y) = h’ (x — y) defining y,, we
                                                              see that y. (x) < y, (x). In order to carry out the induction and obtain
                                                              the corresponding results for all members of the sequence {fn}, defined
                                                              recurrently by the relation
                                                                                             fo+1= Max [g(y) + h(e—y) +fn lay + (x—y))],
                                                                                                                              O<y<sz
                                                              we require the essential inequality /f,’ (x) >,’ (x). There are three
                                                              intervals [0, x2], [%2, x1], [%1, co], to examine, each one requiring a
                                                              separate argument. Using (10) and (11) we have
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (9s)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            =
                                                                                                                                                                                             Sa)
                                                                                                                                                                                 =
                                                                                                                                                                      (x)
                                                                                                                                                     fat
                                                              (12)
                                                              for x > x,. Combining (6) and the equation for y, we have
                                                                                                                                                                           _ 58" (ys) — ah’ (%& — yn)
                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                              (13)                                                                             Si’ (%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         b—a
                                                                       The function [bg’ (y) — ah’ (x — y) ]/( — a) is monotone decreasing
                                                             in y forO< y< x. Since y, < y, wesee thatf,’ (x) >/f,’ (x). This com-
                                                             pletes the proof for the interval [%,, co]. The interval [0, x,] yields
                                                             equality. The remaining interval is [%2, x,]. In this interval, we have
                                                             (14)                                                                            fy’ (x) = g' (x)
                                                                                                                                              fl (x) = bg’ (Ye) — ah’ (x — ye)
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       b—a
                                                             Hence in this interval, since O< y,< x,
                                                                                                                                    ,                              be’ (x) — ah' (0                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                             (15)                                                          fit(2) = EMO) Sory,
                                                            since g’ (x) > h’ (0) is a consequence of g’ (y) > hh’ (x — y) forO< y<x
                                                            and 0<x<%,. This completes the proof that /,’ (x) >/f\’ (x).
                                                                      We now haveall the ingredients of an inductive proof which shows
                                                            that
                                                            (16)                                                                     a. X%, > X%, >... Xn >... > O
                                                                                                                                     b. fi’ (*#) < fh’ (x) ow. fh’ (XS...
                                                                                                                                     C.          V1 (%) > ye (x) >...
                                                            24
                                                                                                                                              A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                               Since fa (x) converges to f(x), fn’ (x) to f” (x), yn (x) to y (x) and xn to %,
                                                               we see that the solution has the indicated form.
                                                                                   § 15. An “ornery’” example
                                                                         Having imposed successively the conditions that g and h be both
                                                               convex or both concave, let us now show by means of an example
                                                               that the solution can be exceedingly complicated if we allow more
                                                              general functions possessing points of inflection.
                                                                         Let us consider the equation
                                                               (1)                       f(x) = Max [e-t/y + e-1/(t-) +f(.8y +.9(x—y))].
                                                                                                                        O<syx<z2z
                                                              The function e~¢/* is used since it is one of the simplest possessing a
                                                              point of inflection. Determining f(x) by means of the method of suc-
                                                              cessive approximations, we obtain a well-behaved curve
                                                                                                                                        E(x) OT
                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                       % o
                                                                                                                                                                                                         30                                            40                                             50
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Figure 1
                                                             Note, however, the strange behavior of y (x)!
                                                                                                                                                20--
                                                                                                                                        y (x)
                                                                                                                                                    KN
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                    0                                                   1                                             I                                              }
                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                      20                                             30                                             40                                            50
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Figure 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                                                                                             
                               A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                As soon as we allow changesof sign on the part of g” (x) and h’ (x),
              we seem to encounter functional equations which defy precise analysis.
                  § 16. A particular example—I
                Figures 1 and 2 show the difficulties that can be encountered in the
              pursuit of general solutions. Let us then consider some simpler equations
              which can be used for approximation purposes.
              THEOREM 7. The continuous solution of
              (1)      f(x) = Max [ext +f(ax), ex? + f(bx)],£0) =0,
              subject to
              (2)                 a O<a,b<l1;¢,d,e,g>0,
                                  bO<d<g,
              ts given by
                                           cx             _
              (3)                 I(*) = p= OS4S%,
                                  Ff (%) = ext + f (bx), x > x,
                                      ~ — fe/(1— a4) 1/(9—4)
              ®                       i= [iam
              Since 0 <b <1, f(x) may be found explicitly in the intervals
                       [w, x/b], ... [x/b", x/b™ +4] ..., forn =0,1,2,...
              PRooF. Let us represent by A the operation of choosing cx4 +f(ax),
              and byB theoperation of choosing ex# + f(bx). A solution corresponding
              to an optimal sequence of choices, S may then be represented sym-
              bolically by
              (5)                  S = A%ByAwBe... ,
             where a; and    are positive integers or zero, and A*% means the choice
             A repeated a; times, with B% having a similar meaning.
                Let us assume for the momentthat the solution does have the indicated
             form and show howto calculate x. At the point x either an A or B
             26
                                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                 decision is optimal, while below x only an A decision is optimal. Conse-
                 quently, symbolically, x is the point where
                 (6)                          BA? = A®.,
                   To compute A®™ we write
                                                                                     ...
                                                                (ax)4+c(atxja+
                                                           +c
                                                       cx4
                                                    =
                                               (ax)
                                             f
                                          +
                                      cx4
                                   =
                             f(x)
                 (7)
                                   = cx4/(1 — a4),
                                  yields
                            BA®
                 Similarly
                                                                     a4),
                                                                  —
                                                        ch4xa/(1
                                                     +
                                                 ex
                                              =
                                          (x)
                                        f
                 (8)
                Equating the two expressions, we find that x has the stated value.
                   It remains to prove that the solution has the desired form. Let us
                begin by showing that A is always used when x is small. To do this it
                is sufficient to show that f(x) = cx4/(1 — a4) is a solution for small x,
                and then to invoke the uniqueness theorem. § We must assure ourselves
                that
                                       cx
                                                         cx               cha x4
                                             =         —_———-       g    —_—
                                                Max iexo +. Togs
                (9)                 1—aé
                for small x. This, however, is clear if g >d>0Oand0<0d< 1.
                We now proceed inductively. Let z be the smallest value of x for which
                a B-choice is optimal. At this point BA® = A®. This means that z = x.
                Let us now consider the interval x > x, and begin by asking for the
                point     where AB and BA are equally effective as a set of first two
                choices.
                   Wehave, using an obvious notation,
                (10)                 fap (x) = ex? + easxo +f(abx)
                                     fea (x) = ex9 + ch4x4 + f(abx).
                Hence the required point # is given by
                                                               as).
                                                            —
                                                         (1
                                                   b4)/e
                                                —
                                             (1
                                           [c
                                        =
                                      p
                (11)
                Since g > 4d, we see that p < x.
                   It follows then from the fact that fag (x) <fsa (x) for x > p that
                for x > x, AB plus an optimal continuation is inferior to BA plus an
                optimal continuation. From this we see that A cannot be used for x > x
                  5 Strictly speaking, we haven’t established this uniqueness theorem yet. However,
                it is easy to see that the method used to establish Theorem 1 works equally well
                in this case.
                                                                                              27
                                                                                                                                             A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                                 unless followed by A, which we knowis also impossible. This completes
                                                                 the proof.
                                                                                    § 17. A particular example—II
                                                                          Another interesting case is that where g and A are quadratic in x.
                                                                 We leave as an exercise the following result:
                                                                THEOREM 8. Let c,d >0 and 0O<b<a<l. Let
                                                                (1)               f(x) = Max [cy —y? + a (x—y) — (x—y)*+f(ay+b (x—y))],
                                                                                                                        Sys72
                                                                                                                         f(0) = 0.
                                                                Then, tn the interval * 0 < x < Min (c/2, d/2), f(x) has thefollowingform,
                                                               which depends on the sign of c/(1 — a) —a/(1 — 6):
                                                                         Case I: c/(l1— a) = a](1— dD).
                                                                                                                                                 (¢c—d)atd                                                             ~                                     a@+(l—a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                        
                                                               (2)                                   f(x) =
                                                                                                                                       1—b6+(b—a)a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1—[(a—b)a+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           bd}?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ’
                                                               where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                               (3)                                                            a= 1 +3“($=* + y/1 + i(f=5=="
                                                                        Case II: c/(l —a) < d/(1 —b).
                                                               ,                                                                                r=(£5)»-(25)
                                                            for 0< x < Min (A, c/2, d/2), where
                                                                                                                                                 (1 + 6) [d (1 — a) —c (1 — 8)]
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                              (5)                                                            A=
                                                                                                                                                                                              2 (1 — ab)
                                                              Wheni < Min (c/2, d/2) use of (1) as a recursion formula enables one to
                                                              obtain f(x) over the entive interval of interest.
                                                                       Case III: ¢/(1 —a) > d/(1 — 3).
                                                              (6)                                                                              fe) =(72,)2-(-4)
                                                           for 0< *< Min(u, c/2, d/2) where
                                                             (7)                                                           p=(1+a)[e(1—b) —d(1 —a) | 2(1 —ad).
                                                                       ¢ This is the maximum interval over which the g and A functions are both
                                                            increasing.
                                                             28
                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                 A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                             § 18. Approximation and stability
                          It is, of course, interesting to have the explicit solutions of as many
                      equations as possible available. However, the true importance of the
                       explicit solutions of simple equations lies in the use of these solutions
                      as approximatesolutions to more obdurate equations, and in furnishing
                      clues to the nature of optimal policies for more complicated processes.
                          In the above sections we have derived explicit solutions for the case
                      where g and A have monomial forms cx¢, and for the case where they
                      are quadratic. Note that approximation to g(x) by means of cx@ is
                      equivalent to an approximation to log g(e*) by meansof log ¢ + dx,
                      qa straight line, which is readily accomplished.
                          Observe that as x changes, we may change our approximating curves
                      so as to obtain betterfits if we wish closer approximations. Furthermore,
                      let us point out that in general the approximation is most useful as an
                      approximation in policy space rather than in function space.
                          In order to use approximation techniques, we require an estimate
                      for the difference between the solutions’ of the two equations
                                                                                                                     =9,
                                                                                                             f(0)
                                                                          flay+b(x—y))],
                                                        [u(x,y)+
                                               Max
                                         =
                                 f(x)
                      (1)
                                            O<y<z
                                F(x) = Max [v(%,y) +F(ay+b(x—y))],                                           F(0)=9,
                                            O<y<z
                      in terms of the difference between u (x, y) and v (x, y). This is a stability
                      theorem in the classical sense.
                         Let us prove
                      THEOREM 9. Let f(x) and F (x) be the continuous solutions of the above
                      equations under the assumptions that u(x, y) and v (x,y) are continuous
                      in x and y for all x,y >0, withO <a,b <1, and that XY m(c*z) < co
                                                                                                          n=0
                      where m(z) = Max                   [Max Max {| u(x, y) |, | v(x, y) | }.
                                          O<a2<z O<y<2
                         If
                      (2)                Max          {Max       |w(x,y)—v(x,y)|}=D(2),
                                      O<2<z O<y<z2
                             co
                      and & D (c®z) < oo, c = Max (a, b), then
                          n=0
                                                                                    co
                      (3)                              If(x) —F (x) [|< 2 D (cnx).
                                                                                 n=
                         7  The existence and uniqueness of these solutions is assured by the natural
                      modification of the proof of Theorem 1. When we speak of the solution, we shall
                      mean the continuoussolution, or, generally, the solution furnished by the existence
                      theorem.
                                                                                                                               29
                                                                                                                                                                                                A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                                                                    ProoF. Define
                                                                                      (4)                                                                                  fi (*) = Max wu (x, ¥)
                                                                                                                                                                            fn+1 (%) =Max(x, } +fr (ay + 6 (x—y))]
                                                                                                                                                                            Fi (x) = Max . (x, ¥)
                                                                                                                                                                             Fy+1 (2) = Max [u (x, ¥) + Fy (ay + 6 (x —y))].
                                                                                     Weknow, using the methods given previously that fy (x) converges to
                                                                                   f(x), and Fy (x) converges to F(x) as N > oo.
                                                                                                   Let us estimate the difference between /, and F,. Clearly,
                                                                                      (5)                                                    fi (4) —Fi (x) |< Max |u(x,y)—v(%,y) |< D2).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O<y<2z
                                                                                      Proceeding, as in § 7, we have
                                                                                     (6)                                                         | fv + 1 (*) — Fr +1 (2) — Max |fy (ay + b (x —y))
                                                                                                                                                        —Fry(ay + b(x—y))| +| Max | u (x,y) — v(x, 9)|
                                                                                     It now follows inductively that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                     (7)                                                                                                |  fy +1 (4) —Fw41 (*) |< 2 D (crx).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n=0
                                                                                     Letting N — co, we obtain (3).
                                                                                                               § 19. Time-dependent processes
                                                                                                  We havetacitly assumed in the foregoing pages that the processes
                                                                                    under consideration were time-independent in that the total return
                                                                                    depended only upon the initial quantity x and the duration of the
                                                                                    process N, and not upon the time at which the process were initiated.
                                                                                    Let us now see how wecan handle situations in which this is not the case.
                                                                                                  Let us assume that as a result of the division of x into y and (x — y)
                                                                                    at the kt” stage, we receive a return gx (x,y) and are left with a quantity
                                                                                    ax (x, y). It is required to determine the allocation policy which maximizes
                                                                                    the total N-stage return.
                                                                                                 We shall assume that gx (x, y) is continuous in x and y for * >0
                                                                                    and 0O<_y< x and that ax (x, y) is hkewise continuous in this region
                                                                                    30
                                             A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                    andsatisfies the inequality 0< az (x, y) < ax,a <1, fork =1,2,...
                       Define
                    (1)   fx, w (¥) = total N-stage return obtained starting with a quantity x
                                          at stage k and employing an optimalpolicy.
                    We have
                    (2)                             fi, 1 (*) =     Max ge (x,y),
                                                                  Osy<2z
                    and for N > 2, arguing as in the preceding pages,
                    (3)           fi, n(x) =       Max (gu (4,9) + fre+a, w -1 (ax (%, 9)-
                                                 O<y<2
                       Since the double subscriptis distressing both analytically, esthetically,
                    and aboveall, computationally, let us see whether or not we canrestore
                    the single subscript relation. Having made up our mind that weare
                    interested in an N-stage process starting at stage 1, let us define
                    (4)   fx (x) = total return obtained starting with a quantity x at stage k
                                      and ending at stage N, employing an optimal policy,
                                      k=1,2,...,N.
                       Then
                    (5)   fi (x) = axbw (x, ¥)
                          fu (x) = Max[gs (x, y) + fest (ae (x, y))],& =1,2,...,.N—1.
                       This simplification is essential if we are interested in computational
                    solutions, since the difference betweentheeffort involved in the tabulation
                    of functions of one variable and functions of two variables is enormous,
                    while that between the tabulation of functions of two variables and
                    functions of three variables may be the difference between a feasible
                    and unfeasible approach.
                       The case of unbounded processes, i.e., N = oo, yields the set of
                    functional equations
                    (6)                f(x) = Max [gx (x,y) +fr+1 (ax (x, y))].
                                                   O<sy<z
                    It is not difficult to obtain the analogues of Theorem 1 for these systems.
                          § 20. Multi-activity processes
                       The process we have been using for expository purposesis the simplest
                    of its category since we allow only one type of resource, and require only
                                                                                                                    Jl
                                               A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                     one allocation at each stage. Let us now discuss the formulation of more
                     general and more realistic processes.
                         Let there be M different kinds of resources, in quantities %,, %2,...,
                     xm respectively. At each stage, a quantity xi of the 2'® resource is
                     utilized to produce an additional quantity of the jt? resource. Hence
                     we have the equations, relating the resources at the (k + 1)s* stage to
                     the resources at the kstage,
                                                          M
                     (1)    x4 (R + 1) = x4 (R) —2° x45 (A) + gi (x10 (A), x20 (R), ..., xe (h)),
                                                         j=1
                     for 1 = 1, 2, ..., M, where
                     (2)                                 (a)  x(k) =O,
                                                               M
                                                         (b)&ie(A) < x4 (R),
                                                             jm
                     and the production functions, g;, are assumed known, together with
                     the initial quantities, x; (0) = cy.
                        The x(k) are to be chosen so as to maximize some pre-assigned
                     function
                     (3)                       Ry = (x, (N), x, (N), ...,%m (N)),
                     of the final resources.
                        In manycases, as we shall see in Chapter 6, there are other constraints
                     in addition to those of (2),
                        If we set
                     (4)                          Jn (Cx, Cg, ++, Cm) = er Ry,
                     we obtain, as before, the recurrence relations
                                                                               M
                     (5) Tn (C1, Cg, ...,Cm) = Maxfy—1(€y — Lip + 83(VirsVar «++,Vmi),-+-)
                                                                             j=1
                                                       {y,3}                j=
                     for N > 2, where the yi are restricted by the relations
                     (6)                        (a) yy > O
                                                       M
                                                 (b) os Vic, 1 = 1, 2, ...,M,
                                                     j=1
                     and
                     (7)                     Fi (Cr, Co, ..., Cm) = F (cy, Cg, ..., Cm).
                    32
                                             A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                        Existence and uniqueness theorems covering the unbounded versions
                    of these general processes will be given in Chapter IV, in conjunction
                     with a better notation. We shall encounter a particular example of this
                    equation further along in connection with the bottleneck processes of
                     Chapter VI. In the present chapter weshall discuss briefly some of the
                     difficult computational problems raised in maximizing over a multi-
                    dimensional domain.
                          § 21. Multi-dimensional structure theorems
                        It is not difficult to extend the results we obtained in the one-
                    dimensional case concerning convexity and concavity of the solutions
                    of the functional equation of (8.1) to the multi-dimensional equations
                    of § 20.
                       Let G(x) be a scalar function of a vector variable x. It is said to
                    be convex if
                    (1)                 G (Ax + (1 —A) y) SAG (x) + (1 —A) G (y)
                    for all A in the range O <1 A < 1. Thefunction is concave if the inequality
                    goes the other way.
                       The multi-dimensional analogue of Lemma 1, proved in § 13, is valid
                    and the proof is precisely the same. Using the lemma, we can establish
                    the result below.
                       Before stating the result, let us introduce a more convenient notation.
                    Let x denote the vector whose components are x;, and y) denote the
                    vector whose components are yj, for 1< 1,7 < M. Then,in terms of
                    the process described above, we have
                    (2)                                    (a)  x = Ly),
                                                           (b) yO >0,
                    where the notation y > 0 signifies that all components of y are non-
                    negative. Let D (x, y) denote the domain defined by (2).
                    THEOREM 10. If 7 (x, y) and a (x, y) are continuous concave functions of
                    x and y for all x,y >0, and r (x, y), a(x, y) ave monotone increasing in
                    the components of x, then the functions {fn (x)} defined by the equations
                    (2)                                fi (x) = Maxr (x,y),
                                                                  D(x, y)
                                                       fv+1 (%) = Max [r(x, y) + fw (a (2, 9))]
                                                                      D(x,y)
                    are all concave functions of x for x > 0.
                                                                                                                   33
                                                                 A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                   This implies a unique optimal policy for each N, wf r (x, y) ts stroctly
                              concave.
                                  The importance of this result resides in the following. If we have
                              an N-stage process where #& decisions must be made at each stage, the
                              functional equation approach reduces the Nk-dimensional maximization
                              problem to a set of N k-dimensional problems. Although this is an
                              essential reduction, the k-dimensional maximization problems them-
                              selves possess thorny features.
                                  If, however, the function of k variables we are maximizingis strictly
                             concave, we know that it possesses a unique relative maximum which
                              is the absolute maximum. Given this additional information that the
                             function under investigation has a unique relative maximum, we should
                             be able to determine a search procedure for the location of this maximum
                             which is far more efficient than the search procedure we would employ
                             for a general function.
                                      § 22. Locating the unique maximum of a concave function
                                  The determination of optimal search procedures ® for the location of
                             the maximum of a concave function or, conversely, for the minimum of
                             aconvexfunction, is an extremely important and difficult problem which
                             has not been solved to date. The solution has, however, been obtained
                             in the one-dimensional case for the more general situation where the
                             function is unimodal, whichis to say possessesa single relative maximum.
                                  Let us pose the problem in the following terms. The function y = f (x)
                             is a strictly unimodal function defined on the interval [0, Ln]. We wish
                             to determine the maximum Ly, with the property that we can always
                             locate the maximum of y = f(x) on a sub-interval of unit length by
                             calculating at most » values of the function f(x). Since the maximum
                             may not exist, it is safer to begin by setting
                             (1)                                                     Fn = Sup Ln
                                 We then have the following result
                             THEOREM II. Fp ts the n*” Fibonacci number; i.e., Fo = F, = 1 and
                                                                                F,rp=Fn-1+Fha-2e
                             (2)
                            for n> 2.
                             Proor. The definition of F, is a matter of convention, on the other
                            hand the value of F, is determined by the process.
                                 8  It is actually not easy to specify precisely what we mean by an optimal search
                            procedure. It clearly depends upon the type of equipment we have, the type of
                            operations we permit, the ‘“‘cost’’ of these operations, and so on. Consequently,
                            there are a variety of problems of the above type which may be posed. The subject
                            has not been explored to any extent.
                            34
                                       A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                     Let us now proceed inductively. Fix m and calculate the values
                  Vi =f(%1), Ve =f(%2) where 0 < x, < 4%, < Ln. If y,; > ye, the maxi-
                  mum occurs on (0, x2) since f(x) is strictly unimodal. If y, > y,, the
                  maximum is on (%,, Ln). If vy; = ye, choose either of the above intervals,
                  even though we know the maximum occurs on (x, x2). Thus, at each
                  stage after the first computation weare left with a subinterval and the
                  value of f(x) at some interior point x. Since values at the ends of an
                  interval furnish no information per se, we restrict our attention to the
                  interior points.
                    For” = 2,Ln = 2— €,x, = 1—e,x, = 1, forarbitrarily smalle > 0.
                  From the preceding argumentit follows that FP, = 2 =F, + Fy.
                    Consider the case where n > 2 and assume that Fy, = Fy-1+ Fr-2
                  for k = 2,...,n—1. Let us begin by showing that
                 (3)                           Fa<Fn-1+Fn-2.
                 For if we calculate f(x) at x, and x, on (0, Ln) we have
                               
                                                  
                                                                  
                                
                            O                    X|              X 2                      L n
                                                       Figure 3
                 If y, > ye, we obtain the new picture
                                                    yy
                             
                                                    
                              
                          0                      x                                        Xo
                                                       Figure 4
                                                                                                   3D
                                                                     A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                    In this case x, < Fn-—, since we have only (m — 2) additional choices
                               with x, a first choice, for the case k = » — 1. Moreover, x, < Fn-,
                               since the maximum could occur on [0, x,], with two choices of x already
                               used.
                                    Similarly if yz > y,, we have Ln —2x, < FPn-y1
                                    Thus in all cases Ln < Fn 1+ Frn-—,, which yields (3). Now chose
                               Ln, x1, %, arbitrarily close to their respective upper boundsFn —~ ; + Frn- a,
                               F,-, and Fn- , respectively. Then Fn = Fn-,-+ Fa -.. This yields
                               the proof of Theorem 11. Furthermore, it yields the optimal policy,
                               since each x; is either discarded or is the optimal first choice for the
                               remaining subinterval.
                                    The sequence {F,} has as its first few terms
                               (4)                                     1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, ...,
                               with F4, > 10,000. Hence the maximum of a strictly unimodal function
                               can always be located within 10-4 of the original interval length with
                               at most 20 calculations of the value of the function.
                                    It is easy to obtain an explicit representation for fn, namely
                                                                                     (7. — 1)                       (1          71)
                                                                                                                     
                                5                                       Fp =                           vr                              7 n
                               ©)                                                    (72         —7;)    :    T Gn) °
                               where
                                                                                                1+v5
                                                                                                                          1.61
                                                                                                                 =~
                                                                                                   +
                                                                                    6
                               (6)
                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                1—v5                          a
                                                                                    %, =              9          =7”
                               From this we see that Fa+,/Fn > 7,2 1.61 as n-> oo. Thus, for
                               large », a uniform approximate procedure is to choose the two first
                               values at distances L/r, from either end, where L is the length of the
                               interval. This is a useful technique for machine computation.
                                   Consider now the related problem where the ‘unimodal function is
                               defined only for discrete values of x. Let Kn be the maximum number
                              of points such that the maximum of the function can always be iden-
                               tified in » computations. The same type of proof as aboveestablishes.
                              THEOREM 12. Ko, = 1, K, = 1, K, = 2, K, = 4, and
                               (7)                                                  Kn =14+ Fa, n > 3.
                              36
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                              A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                                                  § 23. Continuity and memory
                                                                         Let us suppose that we have a function of two variables, f(x, y),
                                                               depending continuously on x and y for x >0 and O< y< x. Define
                                                               the function
                                                               (1)                                                                                                            g(x) =                                   Max f(x,y).
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Osy<z
                                                               It is clear that g(x) will be continuous, but the function y = y (x)
                                                               yielding the maximum need not be continuous. We havealready seen
                                                               an example of this in connection with the functional equation of § 15.
                                                                         Suppose, however, that we restrict f(x, y) to be a strictly concave
                                                               function of y for all y in [0, x], for x > 0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                f (x,y)
                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                             O                                                                              y                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Figure 5
                                                                         It is clear that as x varies, the maximizing y will now be a continuous
                                                               function of x.
                                                                         Let us see how we canutilize this information to simplify the memory
                                                              problem for computing machines. Consider the equations
                                                              (2)                               fu +1(x%) = Max [g(y) + h(x—y) +fy (ay + b(x—y))],
                                                                                                                                                O<y<z
                                                                                                                                                                                   N=1,2,....
                                                               If we have no information concerning the location of a maximizing y,
                                                              we must have available all values of fy (z) for 0< z< ax in order to
                                                              determine fy+1 (x). Suppose, however, we take g(x) and h(x) to be
                                                              strictly concave as well as continuous. In this case, fy (x) 1s strictly
                                                              concave for each N and the function g(y) +h(x—vy) +fw (ay +
                                                               b (x — y)) is strictly concave for 0 < y < x, and what is most important
                                                              the function yy (x) which yields the maximum in (2) is unique and
                                                              continuous as a function of x.
                                                                         It follows than that if we are using an x-grid of values 0,4,24,...,
                                                              to compute f(x), the complete set of values of fy (z) for O< z< ax 1s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37
                     A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
          not required to compute fy +1(x), but only the values of fy (z) in a
          relatively small neighborhood of z = yy (x — J).
           The same idea extended to multi-dimensional equations can result in
          a considerable saving of memory space in computing machines. Recipro-
          cally, we will be able to solve problems using existing machines which
          might otherwise escape them. In any case, a great saving in running
          time will result, once again increasing the feasibility of a solution by
          these means.
            § 24. Stochastic allocation processes
           In the preceding pages of the chapter, we have considered, in greater
         and lesser detail, various multi-stage allocation processes characterized
         bythe propertythat the outcomeof any decision was uniquely determined
         by the choice of this decision. Processes of this type wecall deterministic.
           Not all multi-stage processes, however, possess this property, and, as
         a matter of fact, many of the most interesting are quite definitely not
         of this type. Let us consider here one important class of non-deterministic
         processes in which theeffect of a decision is to determine a distribution
         of outcomes in the sense of probability theory. Processes of this type
         we shall call stochasttc.
           Weshall limit ourselves in this book to processes of these two types.
         The discussion of the origin of processes of more complicated nature,
         and their treatment, we shall defer to another place.
           From the mathematical point of view, stochastic processes furnish
         varied classes of fascinating analytic problems, and throw unexpected
         light upon many processes of supposedly deterministic nature. Appli-
         cations of the theory are furnished by scores of processes drawn from
         biologic, economic, engineering, and physical fields.
           Returning to our domain of decision processes, a fundamental problem
         confronting us is that of defining what we mean by an optimalpolicy
         in the face of uncertain outcomes. What is crystal clear, but so often
         overlooked in a posteriori comment, is the fact that a lack of complete
         control over a process effectively prevents a guarantee of a maximum
         return.
           On the other hand, despite this Damoclean sword of uncertainty,
         there must exist some means of comparing policies, taking into account
         the possible fluctuation of outcomes.
          What causes a major difficulty in applications is not that it is hard
         to find such a measure, but rather thatis is hard to find a unique measure.
         In short, it must be emphasized that there is no one method which can
         have any pretensions to thetitle of ‘‘best.’’ Whatever method is used
         dependsto a large extent upon various analytic and arithmetic aspects
         38
                                             A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                    of the process, and, it must be confessed, upon the philosophical and
                    psychological attitudes of the decision-makers.
                       Having thus dwelt upon the dismal side of the matter, to assuage
                    our consciences, let us now proceed more constructively.
                       The general idea, and this is fairly unanimously accepted, is to use
                    some average of the possible outcomes as a measure of the value of a
                    policy. It is in the choice of this average that the difficulties arise.
                       Let us point out in passing that there is a definite lack of unanimity
                    concerning the use of averages in determining policies for stochastic
                    processes which may be carried through once, or at best, only a few
                    times. In some cases, “‘distribution-free’’ policies can be obtained. In
                    general, however, there seems to be no other approach to these questions
                    than the usual one we present here.
                       The first average, or criterion, we shall employ is the commonarithme-
                    tic weighted average, or expected value. Due to the linearity of this
                    average, it possesses a most important invariant property whichgreatly
                    simplifies the functional equations which describe the process. This
                    property enables the future decisions to be based solely upon the present
                    state of the system, independently of the past history of the process.
                       The second criterion, whichis farless frequently used,is the probability
                    of achieving at least a certain level of return. This also possesses the
                    proper invariant structure as far as multi-stage processes are concerned.
                    Wewill discuss this criterion in greater detail in a subsequent chapter.
                          § 25. Functional equations
                       Let us now consider a simple stochastic version of the deterministic
                    process considered in § 2, and show that the same functional equation
                    technique is applicable.
                        In place of assuming that the outcomeof a division of x into y and
                    x—vyisa return of g(y) + h(x — y), leaving a new quantity x, = ay
                    + b(x—y), let us assume that with probability #, there is a return
                    of g,(y) + Ay (x —y) and a remaining quantity a, y + 6, (x —y), and
                    with probability , = 1—9, a return of g. (y) + h,(* —y) and a new
                    quantity a,y + b, (x — y)
                       Let us define
                    (1)  fw (x) = the expected total return of an N-stage process, obtained
                                      using an optimal policy, starting with an initial quantity x.
                       Then, as before, we obtain the equations
                   (2)       fi, (*) = Max [pi (g1 (vy) + 4c (%—¥)) + Be (Ba lv) + M(x —y))],
                                        O<ysz
                                                                                                                   39
                                              A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                          fu +1 (x) = Max [61 [gi (y) + Ay (x —y) +fn (ary + 8, (% —y))] +
                                          O<y<z
                                                   Pele (v) + he (x —v) +fr (ey + b2(x —y))]],
                    for N > 1.
                        The equations have the same analytic structure as those obtained
                     from the deterministic process. By agreeing to use the “expected value”’
                     as the measureof the value of a policy, we have eliminated the stochastic
                     aspects of the process, at least as far as the analysis is concerned.
                           § 26. Stieltjes integrals
                        For those who are familiar with the Riemann-Stieltjes integral, there
                     is a much more compact way of writing the above equations. Let
                     (1)   dG (u, v; x, y) = distribution function of a return of uw and a re-
                                                   maining quantity of v, starting with an initial
                                                   quantity x and making an allocation of y.
                     Takingfw (x) to be defined as above, we obtain the equations
                     (2)                      fi («) = Max          [ uac (u,v; x, ¥),
                                                         Osy<r
                                              fv +1 (*) = Max | +fy (v)] dG (u, v; %, y)
                                                              O<y<z
                        It is much simpler to describe the processes, to establish existence
                     and uniqueness theoremsfor the resultant functional equations, and to
                     derive analytic properties of the solution, using this short-hand notation.
                     The basic mathematical ideas are, however, the same.
                        Equations of this type will be discussed again in Chapter III within
                     a more general framework.
                           Exercises and Research Problems for Chapter I
                     1.  Let us define the function
                                                     fn (a) = Max [x, x, ... xn]
                                                                    R
                     where F is the region determined by the conditions
                                               ax+x,+t... +an=—a,a>Q0.
                                               b. x: > 0.
                     40
                                  A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
               Prove that fw (a) satisfies the recurrence relation
                               fy (a) =   Max xfv-i1(a—x),N>2,
                                         O<z<a
               with f; (2) = a.
               9. Show inductively that fy (a) = a%/N%, and hence establish the
               arithmetic-geometric mean inequality,
                                (Fatoksel
                                  
                                                         => XX, ... XN,
                                           N
               for xi > 0, with equality only if x,=x*,—=... = xn.
               3. Let us define the function
                                                     N
                                      fn (a) = Min 2 xi?,p > 0,
                                                 Ri=1
               where FR is the region defined by
                                              N
                                           a. & x1 >a,a>Q0.
                                             i=1
                                           b. Xi => QO.
               Show that fw (a) satisfies the recurrence relation
                             f(a) = Min [2 +fv-1(a—x],N>2,
                                      O<2z<a
               with f, (a) = a?.
               4. Show that fy (2) = a? cy, where cy depends only upon N and 4,
               and thus that
                                   cn = Min [xP + (1 — x) Pen-1].
                                         0O<a2<1
               Determine cy for the ranges O< f < 1,1 < 4,respectively.
               5. Consider the problem of minimizing the function
                                                       N
                                F(%4, %g, ...,%n) = L pi sil(si + xi),
                                                     i=1
               where the #; and s; are parameters subject to the conditions f; > 0,
               pi=1, s; > 0, and the x; range over the region defined by x; > 0,
                i
                 N
                aX=a.
                i= ]
                                                                                        41
                                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                   Obtain the corresponding recurrence relations and show that the
                 solution is of the form
                                             xj=90,     Ox<7 <1,
                                              xj >0,     t+1<7<N
                 under a suitable reordering of the x;’s.
                 6. Consider the problem of maximizing the function
                                                                 N
                                        F(x1, %2, ...,4n) = 2X (xi),
                                                               i=1
                                                        N
                 subject to the constraints x; > 0, 2 x; = c. Show that the maximum
                                                       i=1
                is m(c), under the assumption that         (x) is convex.
                 7. Consider the case where       (x) is a monotonically increasing function
                which is strictly concave. Show that the solution of the corresponding
                functional equation,
                                fn (c) = Max [gy (y) +fy-i(e—y)],N >2,
                                         O<syce
                                fi (c) = @(c),
                has the form
                                             yn =0,0<ec< en,
                                                =2n,C > tn,
                 where zy 1s the unique solution of
                                            Y(y) =fv-1(¢—9),
                for N > 2, and show how to determine the sequence {cy}.
                8, Obtain explicit recurrence relations, and the analytic form of the
                sequence for the case where
                                           9 (y) = y — by?, b> 0,
                and c is restricted to the range O<c< 1/20.
                9. What are the analogues of these result for the case where the function
                F has the form© gi (xi), where each function q; (x) satisfies the same
                conditions as above?
                10. Carry through the corresponding analysis for the problem of mini-
                                                N
                                                                               N
                mizing F (x1, %2,...,%*w) = 2 (xi), subject to x; > 0, Y x; = a in the
                                              1i=1                           {= 1
                42
                                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                 case where @ (x) 1s a non-negative monotonically increasing function
                 which is strictly convex. Consider, in particular, the case where
                                           gy (x) = x+ bx?,b>0.
                 11. Consider the problem of maximizing
                                                                       N
                               F(x3, Ne, eee, XN; Vi» Vor. ety YN) — a YP (xi, Vi),
                                                                     1=1
                subject to
                                            N            N
                                Ki, Vi OO, LY He = Cy, L Vi = Cz,
                                           i=1         7=1
                where @ (x, y) is a Strictly concave function, monotone increasing in x and
                   Show that the corresponding functional equation
                            fn (C1, Co) =   Max [p (x,y) +fw -1 (C1—*, C2—Yy)],
                                          Oeyen
                possesses for each N > 2 solution of the form
                                
                                
                              
                                                    Figure 6
                and show how to determine the boundary curves.
                   Consider, in particular, the case where
                              p (x,¥) = U,x + ,y + uy x? + Qu, xy + Uy, Y?,
                12. Under the assumption that » (x) isa monotonically increasing strictly
                concave function, determine the maximum of F (%,, %9,...,%N) =
                  N
                 » (xi) over the region determined by
                i=1
                                                                                             43
                                               A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                               N
                        a»%<01,%>0
                            i=l
                               N
                        b.    oy XiP< Co,
                            i=l
                     for p > 1 and p < respectively.
                     13. Obtain the recurrence relations arising from the problem of mini-
                                 N
                     mizing 2 qi (xi) subject to the restrictions
                               i=1
                        a OSM<N,
                               N
                        b.    2 wi (xi) >a,
                            7~=1
                     under the assumptions that each y; (x)                    is a non-negative monotone in-
                                                                           x)
                                                               N
                     creasing function of x, with 2 yi (ri) > a.
                                                             t=1
                     14. Consider the corresponding multi-dimensional problem of mini-
                                 x
                     mizing 2 qi (xi, yi) subject to the constraints
                               i=1
                        a OSH<nN,0KSyW<ss,
                               N
                        b. a Yi (vi, vi) Da,
                            ~=1
                     under appropriate assumptions concerning the sequence {yi}.
                     15. Determine the maximumof the function x, x, ... xn over the region
                     defined by
                              N
                        a 2 x =1, % > 0,
                            i=1
                        b.    bx4<. %n41,0>1,k = 1,2,...,N—1.
                                                                                         N
                        Consider the same problem for the function 2 ~;?, for different ranges
                                                                                      i=1
                     of p.
                     16. Consider the recurrencerelations
                                        fi, (x) =) Max [g(y) + h(x — y)],
                                                      Sys
                                        Jw +1 (%) = Max [g (y) + A(x —y) + fw (ay + 6 (x—y))],
                                                       O<sy<z
                     4.4
                                   A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                whereg (y) = cyy4, h (y) = cyy4, with cy, c,,d >0. Show that fy (x) =
                unx%, where
                               u, = Max [c,v4 + c, (1 — v)4],
                                    0O<rv<l
                           un+1 = Max [c,v4 + c,(1 —v)4 + uy (av + 5b (1 — v))4],
                                    O<v<il
                  Show that
                                                    |  c, v4 + c,(1—v)4
                                                      
                               lim wy = Max
                                                      1—(av + b(1—v))4]40
                              N—oo        O<v<l
                17. Consider the process described in § 2 under the assumptionthatit is
                not required to useall the resources available at each stage. Show that the
                functional equation obtained in this way has the form
                    f(x) =     Max [g(y.) + h (yo) +f(avi + bye + % —¥i — y2)].
                             W+¥2 <2
                Does this equation have a solution if g (x) and A(x) are both concave
                functions of x? Does it have a solution if they are both convex ? Under
                what conditions upon g (x) and h (x) does it have a solution witha corre-
                sponding optimal policy?
                18. Show that if there is a solution with y, + vy, < %, ¥1, V2 > 0, then
                g’ (y,)/(1 — a) = hr’ (y,)/(1 — 6) under suitable assumptions concerning
                g and h. Whatis the interpretation of this solution ?
                19. Consider the process described in § 2 under the assumption that addi-
                tional resources are added at each stage, either externally or from the
                conversion of all or part of the return g (y) + 4 (x — y) into resources,
                and obtain the corresponding recurrencerelations.
                20. Consider the process described in § 2. Define gy (z) as the minimum
                cost required to obtain a total return of z at the end of N stages. Show that
                   gi(z2)=      Min      [(l—a)y, + (1—}) 9,],
                           g (Hi) + (ys) =z
                gv+1(2) =     Min [1 —a) 91 + (L— ) ya + gw (@ — 8 (x) — A (y2))]
                            YY. =
                21. There are N different types of items, with the z‘» item having weight
                w; and a value v;. It 1s desired to load a ship having a total capacity of w
                pounds with a cargo of greatest possible value. Show that this problem
                leads to the problem of determining the maximum over the ; of the
                                    N
                linear form L = 2 ni v;, subject to the constraints, m; = 0, 1,2,...,N,
                                  i=1
                                                                                           45
                                                                                          A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                           & mm wi < w, and thus that thisproblemleadstotherecurrencerelations
                                        i=1
                                                     fi (w) = v, [w/w,], ([a] denotes the greatest integer containedin a)
                                             fnuei(w) =                                 Max                      [xun +1 + fn (Ww — xwn +1)],
                                                                                                      w
                                                                                                 
                                                                            <a],
                                                                                                   N+1
                                        where x can assumeonly zero or integral values.
                                        22. Suppose that we have a herd of cattle and the prerogative, at the
                                        end of the year, of sending one part of the herd to market, and retaining
                                        the other part for breeding purposes. Assume that the dollar value of y
                                        cattle sent to market is @ (y), and that z retained for breeding purposes
                                        yield az, a > 1, at the beginning of the next year.
                                              Show that the problem of determining a breeding policy which maxi-
                                        mizes the total return over an N-year period leads to the recurrence
                                        relation
                                                                                                                fi (x)            = Max oy)
                                                                                                                                          O<y<ur
                                                                                                                fw (x) =                      Max [@ (y) +fy-1(a (x —y))}.
                                                                                                                                         Osy<z
                                        23. Determinethe structure of the optimal policies in the following cases:
                                              a.         p(y) =ky,k >0
                                              b.         q (y) is quadratic in y
                                                                        is strictly convex
                                              c.         p(y)
                                                         gy      (y)    is strictly concave
                                              d                (y)
                                        24. Formulate the equations under the additional restriction that cattle
                                       must be 2 years old before they can be sold. Take into account feeding
                                        cost and mortality rates.
                                        25. Consider the case in which there are probability distributions for the
                                       price and demand.
                                        26. In problem 22, let @ (x) = cx4,c,d > 0. Show that fw (x) = cenx4,
                                       where cy = c and cyi1=                                                           Max ([7v#+cya¢(1—r)4, N=1,2,....
                                                                                                                    O<r<l
                                        Determine the asymptotic behaviorof cy +1/cw and ry +1/rn.
                                        27. Suppose that we have a quantity x of money, and that portionsof
                                        this money can be used for commongoods, invested in bonds,or invested
                                       in stocks, The return from y dollars invested in bondsis ay dollars, a > 1,
                                       over a period of one year; the return from z dollars invested in stocksis
                                       46
                                   A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                bz dollars, 6 > 1, over a period of one year. The utility of w dollars spent
                is y (w). How should the capital be utilized so as to derive a maximum
                utility over an N year period?
                28. Consider the same problem under the assumption that the return
                from stocksis a stochastic quantity.
                29. A sophomorehasthreegirl friends, a blonde, a brunette, and a red-
                head. If he takes one of the three to the Saturday night dance, the other
                two take umbrage, with the result that the probability that they will
                refuse an invitation to next week’s dance increases. Furthermore, as a
                result of his invitation, there is a certain probability that the young lady
                of his choice will be more willing to accept another invitation and a
                certain probability that the young lady will be less willing.
                  Assuming that feminine memories do not extend back beyond one
                week, what dating policy maximizes the expected numberof dances the
                sophomore attends—with a date?
                30. Obtain a sequence of recurrence relations equivalent to determining
                                                            N
                the minimum of the linear form L = 2 x%;, subject to the constraints
                                                          i=1
                x4 > 0, Hi + Xi41 D> ait = 1,2,...,N—1. Thus, or otherwise, show
                that Min L = Maxai, granted that one a;is positive.
                31. Solve the corresponding problem for the case where the constraints
                are Xi + %i41 + X%i4+2 > M%,41=—1,2,...,N—2.
                32. Determine the recurrence relations for the problem of minimizing L
                     N
                = 2} ¢; Xi, Ci > 0, subject to the constraints
                   i=1
                              xi > 0, bi x; +- di Xi41 > 4,t= l, 2, ...,N—1.
                33. Solve the problem formulated above in (32) for the case where the
               constraints are
                      Xi + M41 > 4,1—1,2,...,N —1, xy > an,or
                      Xi t+ M41 > a,t=—1,2,...,N—1,%, >a, xn > ay, or
                  C.  Xi + x%i41.+- X42 >a1,1=—1,2,...,N—2,%xn-1+ 4n > an-1,
                                                  XN > an.
               plus the usual constraint x; > 0.
               34. Show how to approximate tof(x) in the interval[a, 6] by means of a
                                                                                           47
                                                                     A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                               linear function ux + v according to the following measures of deviation
                                    a.      [- FG) —x—uedx
                                              a
                                    b.         Max |f(x) —ux—v
                                            a<axz<ob
                               35. Suppose that it is necessary to traverse a distance x. If we travel at a
                               speed v there is a probability # (v) ds of being stopped in the interval
                               (s, s + ds) and incurring a delay of d time units. At what fixed speed
                               should we travel in order to minimize the expected time required to cover
                               a distance x?                                                                                                                   (Greenspan)
                               36. Under the same conditions as those of Problem 35, at what speed
                               should we travel in order to minimize the probability of requiring more
                               than a time T to coverthe distance x ?
                               37, Assume that there is a penalty of # dollars when stopped and that
                               actual travelling time costs c dollars per unit time. How do weproceed to
                              minimize expected cost ?
                               38. Obtain a recurrence relation equivalent to the problem of minimizing
                                                                                        N
                               the quadratic form Qy = & (xx — Xx- ,)? over all sets of values for the
                                                            af                      k=1
                              xx for which / x,2 = 1,%, =.
                                                        k=1
                              39. We are informed that a particle is in either of two states, which we
                              shall call S and 7, and are given the initial probability x that it is in state
                              T. If we use an operation A we reduce this probability to ax, where ais a
                              positive constant less than 1, whereas operation L, which consists of
                              observing the particle, will tell us definitely which state it is in. It is
                              desired to transform the particle into state S in a minimum time, with
                              certainty.
                                    Iff(x) is defined to be the expected numberof operations required to
                              achieve this goal, show that f(x) satisfies the equation
                                                                                  (Ls 14xf()
                                                                                                                          |,0<x<1,
                                                            P(x) = Min a.                             L +f(ax)
                                                             f(0) =0.
                              40. Show that there is a number%, in the interval (0,1) with the property
                              that
                                                                                    =I1l+4+xf(l),0<*<%,
                                                                         f(x
                                                                                  ee?
                                                                                    =1+f(ax),1lo>x>Xo.
                              48
                                                                                                                                         A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                             Show that
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                          x= Oo
                                                                                                                                                                    (l—a) fl)                                                         (lL—a)(R+ 1)’
                                                            for the minimizing value of .
                                                             41. At each stage of a sequence of actions, we are allowed our choice of
                                                            one of two actions. Thefirst has associated a probability #, of gaining one
                                                             unit, a probability ~, of gaining two units, and a probability #; of gaining
                                                             nothing and terminating the process. The second has a similar set of
                                                            probabilities #,', p.’, f;’. We wish to determine a sequence of choices
                                                            which maximizes the probability of attaining at least ~ units before the
                                                            process is terminated.
                                                                      Let ~ (n) denote the this probability for m = 1, 2,3, .... Showthatp (n)
                                                            satisfies the equation
                                                                                                                                                                                      Pi p (n — 1) scorn
                                                                                                                       p(n) = Max
                                                                                                                                                                                      bi p(n —1) + pp’ p(n — 2)]”
                                                            forn = 2,3, 4, ..., with p (0) = 1, and
                                                                                                                                                                        p (1) = Max (Ay, py’).
                                                            42. With reference to § 7, show that if g (x) and / (x) are quadratic in x,
                                                            thenfy (c) = an + Bue + yne? where ay, Bn, yn are independentofc.
                                                            43. Show that there exist recurrence relations of the form
                                                                                                                                                                       an+1 = R,(an, By, yy),
                                                                                                                                                                      Bn+1 = R, (an, Bn, VN),
                                                                                                                                                                       YN +1 = R; (an, By, YN);
                                                            where the R; are rational functions.
                                                            44, Treat in a similar way the problem of minimizing the function
                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                     F(X, %2,+ ++, XN) =+Ie (xn —fr) + h (%% — %e - 1)
                                                                                                                                                         +m(%4—2Xe-1 + Xe- 2)],
                                                            where g (x), 2 (x) and m (x) are quadratic.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     49
                                   A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                45. Suppose that we have a machine whose outputperunit timeis 7 (¢) as
                a function of ¢, its age measured in the same units. Its upkeep cost per
                unit timeis # (¢) and its trade-in value at any time¢ is s(¢). The purchase
                price of a new machine is # >s(0). At each of the times ¢ = 0,1,2,...,
                we have the option of keeping the machine, or purchasing a new one.
                Consider an unbounded process where the return one stage awayis dis-
                counted by a factor a, 0<a<_l. Let f(t) represent the total overall
                return obtained using an optimalpolicy.
                  Show thatf(t) satisfies the equation
                                           r(t)—u(t) + af(t+ 1),
                            f
                              (t)
                                 =
                                    Max
                                          ypc
                                                             aw
                                                                      +
                                                                         af
                                                                            (1)
                46. Using the fact that an optimal policy, starting with a new machine,
                is to retain the machine for a certain number of time periods, and then
                purchase another one, determinethe solution of the above equation.
                47. Is it uniformly true that, if given an over-age machine, the optimal
                policy is to turn it in immediately for a new one?
                48. How does one formulate the problem to take into account technolo-
               gical improvement in machines and operating procedures?
                49. A secretary is looking for a single piece of correspondence, ordinarily
                a carbon on thin paper. She usually has 6 places she can look
                                                                           Folder Number k
               Three folders of about 30 sheets each                             1,2,3
               One folder of about 50 sheets                                      4
               One folder of about 100 sheets                                     5
               Elsewhere                                                          6
               Theinitialprobabilitiesof theletterbeing in the various placesare usually
                       k                 Pr                  1-2;                 tie
                                    Probability of      Probability of       Time for one
                                   letter in folder     being found on       examination
                                                       one examination
                                                          if in folder
                       1                11                   .99                   1
                       2                1]                   .99                   1
                       3                11                   .95                   1
                       4                . 20                 .85                   2
                       5                JOT                  10                    3
                       6                .10                  .10                 100
               50
                             A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
               Howshall the secretary look through the folders so as to
                 a. Minimize the expected time required to find a particularletter ?
                 b. Maximize the probability of finding it in a given time? (F. Mos-
                    teller)
             50. Let the function a (x) satisfy the constraint a (x) < d < 1 forall x.
             Show that the solution of the equation
                                 u = Max [b (x) + a(x) uw],
             if it exists, 1s unique, and is given by the expression
                                 u = Max b (x)/(1 — a (x)).
             Under what conditions does the solution exist ?
               If a(x) does not satisfy the above condition, show that the number
             of solutions is either 0, 1, 2 or a continuum, and give examplesof each
             occurrence.
             51. We are given a quantity x > 0 that is to be utilized to perform a
             certain task. If an amount y, 0< y < ¥%, is used on anysingle attempt,
             the probability of success is a (y). If the task is not accomplished on the
             first try, we continue with the remaining quantity x — y. Show that if
             f(x) represents the over-all probability of success using an optimalpolicy,
             then f (x) satisfies the functional equation
                         f(x) =  Sup [a(y) + (l—al(y))f(x—y)].
                               O<y<z
             52. Derive the corresponding equation for 1 —f(x), the probability of
             failure.
             53. Consider the two cases where a (y) is convex or concave, and obtain
             the explicit solutions for these cases. Observe that in one case thereis no
             optimal policy.
             54. Consider the process discussed in § 2 under the assumption that the
             total return from an N-stage processis
                         R'v=g(y) +h(x—y) + e(y1) +h (4%: —v1) +...
                                + g (yn -1) +h (xn -1— yn -1) + (xy),
             where & (x) is a given function.
             55. Consider the functional equation
                     f(x) = Max [g (y) + h(x —y) +flay + b (x — y))],
                           O<y<zr
                                                                           ol
                                                                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                              under the assumption that
                                   a.      gly) ~ ce, y4,h(y) ~ cy y4, Cy, Cz, d > 0, as y > 00
                              or
                                   b.       gly) ~ cy, hy) ~ coy%, Cy, Cg, dy, dz > O0as yoo.
                                    In both cases, determine the asymptotic behavior off(x) as x > 0.
                              56. Determine a recurrence relation for
                                                             
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                   
                                               Min |              as          ga‘maa, an |.
                                              r,>0 ¥2 + %3                           %3 + Xq                              Xn + Xy                  Xy + Xe
                              with the introduction of suitable additional parameters.
                              57. Consider the problem of determining the minimum ofthe function
                                                                           N                                          N
                                                                          & x(%e,%e+1) + & he (re),
                                                                       k=1                                         k=1
                              where 7n +1 = 7, and the 7, are subject to the constraint
                                   a O<re<dx,
                                             N
                                   b 2 Dx(7x) = C,
                                         k=1
                              with each x (x) a known monotoneincreasing function of x, wx (0) = 0.
                                   Introduce the auxiliary problem:
                                   Minimize
                                                           g (u, 72) + g (72, 7s) + eee + g (rn - 1, ny) + g (rN, v)
                                                                    N
                                                           + 2 he(re),
                                                                 k=2
                              with 72, 73, ..., 7w subject to the constraints
                                   a.       O<ry<i by
                                              N
                                   b.        XY pe(re) Sc.
                                          k=2
                                   Show that if we designate the above minimum byF (uw, v, c), then the
                              minimum in the original problem is given by
                                                                               Min F(7%, 7, ¢ —qy,(7,)).
                                                                          O<71<)
                              52
                                                                                           
                                                                A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                            58. Introduce the sequence of functions, R = 2, 3,...,N—1,
                                 Fp (u, v, c) = Min [g (u, rr) + g(7R,7R+1) +... + 8 (rN - 1, YN)
                                                               Th                                                N
                                                                                  +g(rv,v) + 2& he(re)),
                                                                                                              k=R
                            with
                                                 Fy (u,v, c) = Min [g (uw, rw) + g (rn, v) + hn (rN)].
                                                                                "N
                                 For each R, admit only c-values satisfying the restriction
                                  N
                                 & x(bx) > c, where the b, are fixed positive constants.
                              k=R
                                 Show that we havethe recurrence relation
                                 Fp(u, v, c) = Min [g (u, rr) + Ar (rr) + Fr+i(re, v, C—pr(rr))],
                                                                "R
                             where 7p varies over the interval defined by
                                 a.       O<rr<dp,
                                               N
                                 b.           a Vk(dx) > C—pr(rr).
                                        k=R+1
                             59. Consider in a similar fashion the problem of minimizing a function
                            such as
                                      Ry = 8 (11, %2, 13) + & (Ye, %a, Ya) + ++ +8 (%N- 1, 7N, 11)
                                                                                  + g (rN, ‘1; 10).
                             60. Suppose that we have a quantity of capital x, and a choice of the
                             production in varying quantities of N different products. Assumeiniti-
                             ally that there is an unlimited supply of labor and machinesfor the pro-
                             duction of any items we choose, in any quantities we wish. —
                                 If we decide to produce a quantity x; of the 2¢” item, we incurthefollow-
                             ing costs:
                                 a.       a; = unit cost of raw materials required for the 2¢” item
                                 b.      06;   = unit cost of machine production of 2¢* item
                                 c.       ci   = unit cost of labor required for 2#” item.
                                 d.       C; =a fixed cost, independent of the amount produced
                                                   of the 2#” item, if x; > 0.
                                 The cost of producing a quantity x; of the z#” item is then
                                                        gi (xe) = (ae + Oe + ci) mi + Ci,                                      “4 > 0
                                                                     = Q,                                                      xi = 0.
                                                                                                                                                                        53
                                   A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                   Let ~; be the selling price per unit of the z#* item. The problem is to
                choose the x; so as to maximize thetotal profit
                                                       N
                                             Py= 2 Pi%,
                                                    i=1
                subject to the constraints
                          N
                   (a)   & gi (mi) <x,
                        i=1
                   (b)  x >0.
                   Let
                                            Jn (x) = Max Py.
                  Show that
                              Fi(*) = pi (x—Cy)/(Qitbite,), %* SC,
                                    = 0,                    0 <= x <= Ci,
                and
                              fn (x) =    Max [pnxn +fw-1(%—gn (xy))].
                                         z.>0
                                       Uy(ty) <2
                Show that xv > 0 can be replaced by
                                          fv - 1 (%) —fn - 1 (¥ —Cy)
                                    xn >                               .
                                                       Pn
                61. Assume that the demand for each item is stochastic. Let Gx (z) repre-
                sent the cumulant function for the demand z for the k¢” item. Show that
                the expected return from the manufacture of x; of the k** item is
                                  bi [*2aGe (2) + pe[xdG (2)
                                                            Hie
                                  =px{*zAGx(2) + pexe (1 —Ge (xx)),
                and obtain the recurrence relation corresponding to the problem of
                maximizing the total expected return.
                62. Consider the problem of maximizing the probability that the return
               exceed 7.
                63. Consider the above problem in the deterministic and stochastic
               versions when there are restrictions upon the quantity of machines
               available and the labor supply.
               54
                                                                                                                  A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                   64. Obtain the recurrence relations corresponding to the case where we
                                                   have ‘‘complementarity’’ constraints such as
                                                           a.             XX, = 0, %7%ge =O, Xo Xp X11 = O,*~
                                                                           and so on, or
                                                           b.             %:x*141=0, 1 =1,2,..., N—I1.
                                                    65. Suppose that we have a complicated mechanism consisting of N
                                                   interacting parts. Let the z¢” part have weight Wi, size S;, and let us
                                                   assume that we knowthe probability distribution for the length of time
                                                   that any particular part will go without a breakdown,necessitating a new
                                                   part. Assumealso that we knowthe time and cost required for replace-
                                                   ment, and the cost of a breakdown. Assuming that there are weight and
                                                   size limitations on the total quantity of spare parts we are allowed to
                                                   stock, how do we stock so as to minimize
                                                                      the expected time lost due to breakdowns,
                                                                      the expected cost of breakdowns,
                                                                OP
                                                                      a given function of the two, time andcost,
                                                                .     the probability that the time lost due to breakdownswill exceed 7,
                                                                AO
                                                                      the probability that the cost due to breakdownswill exceed C?
                                                                co
                                                   66. Determine the possible modes of asymptotic behaviorof the sequence
                                                   {un} determined by the recurrencerelation
                                                                                                                        Un+1 = Max [aun + 0, cun + d],
                                                   and generally by the recurrencerelation
                                                                                          Un+1 = Max [aiun + di], 7+ =1,2,...,R.
                                                   (cf. Problem 50).
                                                   67. Determine the minimum of
                                                                                       F(x1, %, ..., XN) =                                                                  gi (xi) + Max (xy, %2, ..., XN),
                                                                                                                                                                      MSs
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                              i
                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                   subject to the constraints x; > 0.
                                                   68. Suppose that we have N different activities in which to invest capital.
                                                  Let gi (xi) be the return from the 2*® activity due to an investmentof %;.
                                                   Given an initial quantity of capital x, we are required to invest in at
                                                  most & activities so as to maximize the total return.
                                                           Denote the maximum return by fr, n(x). Show that we have the
                                                  recurrence relation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DD
                                                             A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                                        [|
                                                                             Max
                                                                                         [gn(y)
                                                                                                      +
                                                                                                          fe
                                                                                                                -1,"
                                                                                                                          -1,
                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                  (x
                                                                                                                                      —y)]
                                   fr, w (x) = Max                         O<y<z                                                                      ,
                                                                        |fe, nw —1 (%)
                           for L=< k= N—1.
                           69. Two corporations, with interlocking directorate, are forbidden by
                           anti-monopoly statutes from investing in the same enterprise. The first
                           corporation has capital x to invest, the second capital y, with known
                           returns g; (z) from an investment of a quantity of capital z in the 2of
                           Ndifferent enterprises.
                               Show that if the directors wish to maximize the total return from the
                           two corporations, they must maximize
                                                                                       AV                      N
                                                             Fr (xi, yt) = 2X gi(xi) + & gi ly),
                                                                                     i=1                     i=1
                           subject to the constraints
                                      N
                               a.     & Xi = xX, Xi > O,
                                    i=1
                                      N
                               b. a YVi=V,Vi > 0.
                                    i=1
                               C.    xi Vi = Oz.
                               Let
                                                                     Fn (%, y) = Max Fr (%:, i)
                                                                                          {is 4}
                           Show that
                                                                             Max
                                                                                          [gn
                                                                                                 (yw)
                                                                                                         +
                                                                                                              fw
                                                                                                                    -1
                                                                                                                         (x,
                                                                                                                               y
                                                                                                                                  —
                                                                                                                                        yn)
                                                                                                                                               ]
                                                                                                                                                |
                                         ww     (X,    —M                Osyn sy
                                       Ie)                      el           Max [gn (xv) +fn -1(% — xn, Y) )
                                                                      |O<%@y <2
                               Consider the case where the different corporations derive different
                           returns from the sameenterprise.
                           70. It 1s decided to employ a policy of replacing all light bulbs in an
                           office building at one time. Assume that the cost of replacing the bulbs
                           is a, and that g(x) represents the cost due to lack of lighting if a time
                           interval x elapses between replacements. Over a time interval 7, it is
                           decided to make replacements at times %1, %1 + %2,...,%1 + xe+...4+
                           +x, =T, where x is to be determined.
                           56
                                                                                                                                            A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                                         The efficiency of the program is to be measured by the average loss
                                                               sustained
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E(a +g (x) )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                            F(x1, x2, wee, Xn) =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T
                                                               What is the optimal policy?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (I. R. Savage)
                                                               71. Let the functions gi (x) be such that the maximum of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                      Fry (x1, x2, ...,*w) = 2 gi (xi)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               i=1
                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                              over the region x; > 0, 2’ x; = c may be obtained by use of a Lagrange
                                                                                                                                                                i=1
                                                              multiplier A, considering the expression
                                                                                                                                                                        N                                                             N
                                                                                                                                            Gy = 2 gi (xi) —AK SX.
                                                                                                                                                                     i=1                                                      i=1
                                                             On the other hand, let fw (c) = Max Fy. Show that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   {7}
                                                                                                                                                                                                  A =fw’ (¢)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                       Obtain the corresponding result for the maximum of » g; (%:, yi)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i=1
                                                             subject to
                                                                                                                                             N                                                     N
                                                                                                                                           ax=C1, L Vi= Co, xi, yi > 0.
                                                                                                                                      t=1                                                   i=l
                                                             72. Let
                                                                       M, (%1, x2, ..., Xn) = the rt” largest of the quantities %1, x2, ..., xn,
                                                                        Nr (%1, x2, ..., ¥N) = the vt” smallest of the quantities %1, x2, ..., xn,
                                                            fory = 1, 2, ..., N. Obtain recurrence relations connecting the members
                                                            of the sequences
                                                                                {My (x1, 2, ..., Xn)}, {N+ (%1, x2, ..., Xn)}, 7=1,2,...,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                            73. Consider the problem of maximizing 2 27%;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i=1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                            subject to the constraints x; >0, 2 1/(1 + «:) < x.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i=l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (J. V. Whittaker)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      57
                                                                                                                                          A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                              74, A gambler has a capital of x dollars and wishes to bet on the outcomes
                                                              of N different events. There is a probability px that he can predict the
                                                              kth outcome correctly. The only constraint on the total amount that he
                                                              bets is the condition that he be able to pay off his losses.
                                                                       Show that the problem of maximizing his expected return may be
                                                              converted into the problem of maximizing
                                                                                                                                                         x
                                                                                                              Ly (x) = 2 pe xx subject to the constraints
                                                                                                                                                     k=l
                                                                                                              (a)             xi > 0,
                                                                                                                               x
                                                                                                              (b) oe MK + 4,7 = 1, 2, Ju, NV,
                                                                                                                           i=1
                                                              75, Consider the problem of maximizing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                             Lyn (x) = a Pr Xk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  k=1
                                                             subject to the constraints
                                                                                                              (a)             x; > 0
                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                             (b) S xui<u+ x;
                                                                                                                        i
                                                                                                                             = 1
                                                                                                                                 Me
                                                                                                                                        Ni < U.
                                                                                                             (c)
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                       Define fy (wu, v) = Max Ln (x). Show that
                                                                                    In (u, v) == Max [pn XN + fw -1 (u —xy, Min (v —— XN, u) ) ]
                                                             76. The problem of designing an efficient water distillation plant for
                                                            heavy water production involves the minimization of
                                                                                                                                                               g(a) | elas) |8(am
                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                               Vu = (ai) +
                                                                                                                                                                      ay                              ayag                                                            Aa, a2... Am —1
                                                            where the a; are subject to the constraints
                                                                                                             (a)             ai =_ 1
                                                                                                             (b) @1 dg... Am = X.
                                                                      Show that this may be reduced to the functional equation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                         x
                                                                                                                                        fe
                                                                                                                                                     +1
                                                                                                                                                                 (x)
                                                                                                                                                                               =
                                                                                                                                                                                           Min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (a1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +—fe(—)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                                                                                                        a, >1                                                             ay                        ay
                                                            and find the solution in the case where g(y) = y®, b > 0.
                                                            58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ]
                                                                                                                                           A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
                                                                77. Consider the case where
                                                                                                                                                                                  G2 (42) ot                                                                            &m (am)
                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                Vn = g1 (a1) +
                                                                                                                                                                                          ay                                                           A, a2... Am —_1
                                                                        (E. Cerri, M. Silvestri and S. Villan, ‘‘The Cascading Problem in a Water
                                                               Distillation plant and Heavy Water Production,” Z. Naturforschg., 1la,
                                                               694 (1956).)
                                                               78. Consider the problem ofallocating resources to N different activities,
                                                               leading to the problem of maximizing a function
                                                                   & gi(xi) subject to the constraints L' x; = c, x; > 0.
                                                               Show that the functionfy (c) obtained via the usual recurrence relations
                                                              does not depend upon the way in which the activities are numbered.
                                                                                                                    Bibliography and Comments for Chapter I
                                                                       § 1. A fairly complete bibliography of papers up to 1954 plus some remarks
                                                              which complement the text may be found in R. Bellman, ‘“‘The Theory of
                                                              Dynamic Programming,” Bull. Amey. Math. Soc., vol. 60 (1954), pp. 503-516.
                                                                       § 2. This process was first discussed in Econometrica, vol. 22 (1954), pp.
                                                              37-48.
                                                                       § 7. Further discussion of this problem may be found in R. Bellman,
                                                              “A Class of Variational Problems,” Quart. of Appl. Math., 1956. An inter-
                                                             esting discussion of general ‘‘smoothing”’ problems may be found in I. J.
                                                              Schoenberg, “‘On Smoothing Functions and their Generating Functions,”’
                                                             Bull. Amer. Math. Soc., vol. 59 (1953), pp. 199-230, where a number of
                                                             further references may be found.
                                                                      § 11. The importance of the concept of approximation in policy space
                                                             was stressed in R. Bellman, “On Computational Problems in the Theory
                                                             of Dynamic Programming,’”’ Symposium on Numerical Methods, Amer. Math.
                                                             Soc. Santa Monica, 1953.
                                                                      § 12. The elegant proof of Lemma 1 was found independently by I. Ghicks-
                                                             berg and W. Fleming to whom the author posed the problem of finding a
                                                             better proof than that given in the opening lines of the section.
                                                                      § 17. The results in this section were derived by D. Anderson.
                                                                      § 18. A more complete discussion of the conceptof the stability of solutions
                                                            of functional equations may be found in R. Bellman, Stability Theory of
                                                            Differential Equations, McGraw-Hill, 1954.
                                                                     § 19. The reduction of the sequence {/fx, ~ (¥)} to a sequence {f; (¥)} is an
                                                            important piece of mathematical legerdemain as far as computational
                                                            solutions are concerned; cf also § 6 and § 7. The limited storage capacity
                                                            of computing machines makes one quite stingy with subscripts and para-
                                                            meters.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     59
                    A MULTI-STAGE ALLOCATION PROCESS
           § 22. The proof in the text follows a paper of S. Johnson, ‘‘Optimal
         Search is Fibonaccian,’’ 1955 (to appear).
           An equivalent result was found earlier by J. Kiefer, unbeknownst to
         Johnson, using a much more difficult argument: J. Kiefer, “Sequential
         Minimax Search for a Maximum,’’ Proc. Amer. Math. Soc., vol. 4 (1953),
         pp. 502-6.
           The problem of determining a corresponding result for higher dimensions
         seems extraordinarily difficult, and nothing is known in this direction at
         the present time.
           § 24. An excellent introduction to the study of stochastic processes is
         given in the book by W.Feller, Probability Theory, John Wiley and Sons,
         1948. A number of important physical processes are discussed in the book
         by M. S. Bartlett, An introduction to stochastic processes with special reference
         to methods and applications, Cambridge, 1955.
         Exercise 76. See R. Bellman, Nuclear Engineering, 1957
         60
                               CHAPTER II
                AStochastic Multi-Stage Decision Process
              § 1. Introduction
            In the preceding chapter we considered in some detail a multi-stage
           decision process in both deterministic and stochastic guises. In this
           chapter weshall discuss a stochastic multistage decision process of an
           entirely different type which possesses a numberof interesting features. In
           particular, in obtaining the solution of some simple versions of processes
           of this type, we shall encounter the important concept of “‘decision
           regions.
            Weshall follow essentially the same lines pursued in the previous
           chapter, first a statement of the problem, then a brief discussion in clas-
           sical terms. Following this, the problem will be formulated in termsof a
           functional equation, the required existence and uniqueness theoremswill
           be proved, and then the remainderof the chapter devoted to a discussion
           of various properties of the solution, such as stability and analytic
           structure.
            For the simple process used as our model, we are fortunate enough to
           obtain a solution which has a very interesting interpretation. Equally
           fortunately as far as the mathematical interest of the problem is concern-
           ed, this solution does not extend to more general processes of the same
           type. This forces us to employ techniques of an entirely different type
           which weshall discuss in a later chapter, Chapter 8.
            The failure of the elementary solution is not due solely to the inade-
           quacy of the analysis. A counter-example has been constructed showing
           that the solution of a multi-stage decision process of this class cannot
           always have the simple form of the solution given in § 8 below. Another
           proof of this fact is furnished by Lemma 8 of Chapter8.
            A number of interesting results which we do not wish to discuss in
           detail are given as exercises at the end of the chapter.
              § 2. Stochastic gold-mining
            Weshall cast the problem in the mold of a gold-mining process.
            Suppose that we are fortunate enough to own two gold mines, Ana-
           conda and Bonanza, the first of which possesses within its depths an
                                                            61
                                                             STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                               amount of gold x, and the second an amountof gold y. In addition, we
                               have a single, rather delicate, gold-mining machine with the property
                               that if used to mine gold in Anaconda, there is a probability #, that it
                               will minea fraction 7, of the gold there and remain in working order, and
                               a probability (1 — ,) that it will mine no gold and be damaged beyond
                               repair. Similarly, Bonanzahas associated the correspondingprobabilities
                               p, and 1 — fz, and fraction 7,.
                                    Webegin the process by using the machine in either the Anacondaor
                               Bonanza mine. If the machine is undamaged after its initial operation,
                               we again make a choice of using the machinein either of the two mines,
                               and continue in this way making a choice before each operation, until the
                               machine is damaged. Once the machine is damaged, the operation ter-
                               minates, which meansthat no furthergold is obtained from either mine.
                                    What sequence of choices maximizes the amount of gold mined before
                               the machine is damaged ?
                                        § 3. Enumerative treatment
                                    Since we are dealing with a stochastic process, it 1s not possible to talk
                               about the return from a policy, a point we have already discussed in § 24
                               of the previous chapter, nor can we choose a policy which guarantees a
                               maximum return. We must console ourselves with measuring the value
                               of a policy by means of some averageof the possible returns, and choosing
                               an optimal policy on this basis. As before, the simplest such average is
                              the expected value.
                                   Let us then agree that we are interested in the policies (since there may
                              be many) which maximize the expected amount of gold mined before the
                              machine is damaged. A policy here will consist of a choice of A’s and B’s,
                              A for Anaconda and B for Bonanza. However, any such sequence such as
                              (1)                                                 S = AABBBABB...
                              must be read: A first, then A again if the machine is undamaged, then B
                              if the machineis still undamaged, and so on.
                                   Let us initially, to avoid the conceptual difficulties inherent in un-
                              bounded processes, consider only mining operations which terminate
                              automatically after N steps regardless of whether the machineis unda-
                              maged or not. In this case it is quite easy, in theory, to list all feasible
                              policies, and to computeall possible returns.? It is possible to use this
                              idea to some extent in certain problems. However,in general, this proce-
                              dure is rather limited in application, unrevealing as to the structure of an
                              optimal policy, and, as a brute force method, a betrayal of one’s mathe-
                              matical birthright.
                                   2  To quote numbers again, a 10-stage policy would require the listing of 21° =
                              1024 possible policies; if three choices at each stage, then 59,049 different policies.
                              62
                                        STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                           § 4. Functional equation approach
                        In place of the above enumerative approach, weshall once again em-
                    ploy the functional equation approach. Let us define
                    (1)           fw (x, y) = expected amountof gold mined before the machine
                                                  is damaged when A has x, B has y and an optimal
                                                  policy which can last at most N stages is employed.
                       Considering the one-stage process, we see that an A-choice yields an
                    expected amount #, 7, x, while a B-choiceyields p, 7, y. Hence
                                                                                 Pore).
                                                                      [pi71%,
                                                               Max
                                                           =
                                                        y)
                                                   (x,
                                                fi
                    (2)
                       Let us now consider the general (N + 1)-stage process. Whatever
                    choice is made first, the continuation over the remaining N stages must
                    be optimal if we wish to obtain an optimal (N + 1)-stage policy. Hence
                    the total expected return from an A-choice is
                    (3)                  fa(%, vy) = pi (7%, % + fw (1 —7,) x, y)),
                    and the total expected return from a B-choice is
                    (4)                  f(x, ¥) = bate y +fr (x, (1 — 72) y))-
                       Since we wish to maximize our total (NV + 1)-stage return, we obtain
                    the basic recurrencerelation
                    (5)       fu +1 (%, y) = Max[fa (x, y),fa (*, y) J,
                                              = Max [p (1, x + fu ((L—1) *, 9), be Tay +
                                                       fr (x, (1 — 72) y))].
                          § 5. Infinite stage approximation
                       The same argumentation shows that the return from the unbounded
                    process, which wecallf(x, y), assuming that it exists, satisfies the func-
                    tional equation
                    (1) f(x,y) = Max [Ai (1. * + f((l—n) *, ¥)), Ba 2 ¥ + f(x, (1 —72)9))]-
                    Once again, the infinite process is to be considered as an approximation
                    to a finite process with large N. In return for the advantage of having
                    only a single function to consider, we face the necessity of establishing
                    the existence and uniquenessof a solution of the equation in (1). This we
                    proceed to do in the nextsection.
                                                                                                                   63
                                    STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                        § 6. Existence and uniqueness
                     Let us now provethe followingresult:
                  THEOREM 1. Assumethat
                  (1)                             a.    [Pi |, |e) <1?
                                                  b O<"1,7r. <1.
                  Then there is a unique solution to (5.1) which ts bounded in any rectangle
                  Ox4aX,0Sy<lY.
                     This solutionf(x, y) ts continuous in any finite part ofthe region x, y > 0.
                  ProoF: Let us, to simplify the notation, set
                  (2)                   Ti(f) =pilnx +f((l—n) x, y)I,
                                        T2(f) = pelrey +f(x, (1 — 72) y)].
                  Then the functional equation in (5.1) has the form
                  (3)                  f(x, ¥) = Max [T, (f), T2(f)]-
                     Define the sequenceof functions
                  (4)                   fi (%, ¥) = Max [p11 %, pare ¥),
                                       fn +1 (%, y) = Max [T, (fy), Ts (fy)],
                                                      =Max[Ti(fy)]
                  precisely as in the recurrencerelation of (4.5).
                     Let 1 =1(N) =12(N, x, y) be an index which yields the maximum in
                  the expression       Max [T:(/fw)], for N = 1, 2,...
                                      i=1,2
                  Then we have,
                  (5)                  Ju+1 (%, ¥) = Tt wy (fr) = Ti wey (fy)
                                       In+2(*, ¥) = Ti ww) (fv 41) > Ti wy) (fv 41),
                  using the same device we employed in the course of the existence and
                  uniqueness proof for the solution of the functional equation in (8.1) of
                  Chapter 1.
                     2 In the equation arising from the process described above, the p,; are non-
                  negative. The proof we give covers the more general equation as well.
                  64
                                                                                                                                                                           STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                                                                                     Hence
                                                                                       (6)                         |   fr +1 (%, ¥) —fv +2 (%, y) | << Max [| Te (wy (fv) — Ti cy(fn +1)|,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |     Ti ww +a) (fw) — Ti ww +1) (fw +1)|]
                                                                                                                                                                       <
                                                                                                                                                                                      Max
                                                                                                                                                                                                                [
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (fv)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (fw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |]
                                                                                                                                                                       <Max[| A, |fy (1 — 1) x, y) —fv +1((l —1) x, y) |,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |     Pa | | fv (x, (1 — re) v) —fiw +1 (x, (1 — 72) y) |].
                                                                                      Let us now define
                                                                                      (7)                                                                                    un (x,y) = Max fn (s, ¢) —fw+1(s, 2) |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S518)
                                                                                      From (6) we obtain
                                                                                     (8)                                                                                                                                     un +1(%, ¥) <q Un (X,Y),
                                                                                     where g = Max(|4, |, | p2|). Since O< q <1, we see that the series
                                                                                              & wun (x, y) converges uniformly in any boundedrectangle O<x+<X,
                                                                                     N=1                                                      _
                                                                                     O<vy< Y. Hence fn (x, y) converges uniformly to a function f(x, y)
                                                                                     whichsatisfies the relation (5.1), and which is continuous in any bounded
                                                                                     rectangle in the (x, y)-plane.
                                                                                                  The uniqueness proof follows the samelines as the proof of Theorem 1
                                                                                     of Chapter 1 andis left as an exercise for the reader.
                                                                                                  Aswesee from the aboveproof, the choiceoff, (x, y) is arbitrary pro-
                                                                                     vided only that it be bounded in any finite rectangle. It is interesting to
                                                                                    note that the limit function will be continuous evenif the initial function
                                                                                     is not, as a consequence of the uniquenessof the solution.
                                                                                                               § 7. Approximation in policy space and monotone con-
                                                                                                                                          vergence
                                                                                                 Asbefore, it is easily seen that we can ensure monotone convergence
                                                                                    by approximation in policy space, in the case where #,, 2. > 0. The two
                                                                                    simplest approximations are those corresponding to A® and B”,? From
                                                                                   the first policy we obtain the expected return
                                                                                    (1)                                                                                                      fa (x,y) = fin x/(1—p~,(1—n)),
                                                                                    and from the second, the return
                                                                                    (2)                                                                                                       fa (%,¥) = pote y/(l — p2(1 —7%)).
                                                                                                 3 It is interesting to observe the following difference between the process and
                                                                                   the functional equation obtained from it. The sequence A© is conditional as far
                                                                                   as the process is concerned, but deterministic as far as the equation is concerned.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                65
                                                                                                                           STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                                                        As weShall see below in § 8 and § 9, we actually possess a far more so-
                                                              phisticated technique for obtaininga first approximationin the discussion
                                                              of more complicated processes, at the expense, of course, of the above
                                                              simplicity of expression. The guiding principle is, however, quite simple.
                                                                                 § 8. The solution
                                                                        Let us now turn to the solution of the equation in (5.1) for the case
                                                              where#, and#, are real numberssatisfying the inequality 0 < ~,, f. <1.
                                                              It is intuitively clear that an A-choice is made when x/y > 1 anda
                                                             B-choice is made when y/x > 1 4.
                                                                        It is also easily seen that the choice at each stage depends only on the
                                                              ratio x/y, since f(kx, ky) = kf (x, y) for k > 0. Perhaps the quickest
                                                              way to provethis is to invoke the uniqueness theorem, althoughit is
                                                             intuitively clear from the description of the process.
                                                                        It follows then that if we examine the positive (x, y)-quadrant, and
                                                              divide it into an A-set and a B-set, which is to say those valuesof x and y
                                                              at which an A-decision is the optimalfirst choice and those at whichthe
                                                             B-decision is optimal, then (x, y) in the A-set implies that (kx, ky) is in
                                                             the A-set for all k > 0, and similarly for the B-set.
                                                                       If these sets are well-behaved,it follows that their boundaries must be
                                                             straight lines,
                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 1
                                                            as conceivably in the figure above. The regions where A and B are used
                                                            are called decision regions.
                                                                      Let us now boldly conjecture that there are only two regions, as in
                                                            Figure 2,
                                                            and see if we can determine the boundaryline, L, if this is the case.
                                                                     4 The notation a > 1 signifies that a is very large comparedto 1.
                                                            66
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                         STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L
                                                                                                                                    y
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 2
                                                                      Whatis the essential feature of the boundaryline which will enable us
                                                             to determineits equation? It is this: it is the line on which A or B choices
                                                            are equally optimal.
                                                                       If we use A at a point (x, y), with an optimal continuation from the
                                                            first stage on, we have
                                                            (1)                                                                fa(%,¥) =pPinx + pif((lL—n) %, 9),
                                                             while similarly B at (x, y), and an optimal continuation,yield
                                                            (2)                                                                f(x,y) = Petey + bef(x, (1 —7”) y).
                                                            Equating these two expressions we obtain the equation for L. Unfortu-
                                                            nately, this equation as it standsis of little use since it involves the un-
                                                            known function/.
                                                                       In order to complete the analysis successfully we must make a further
                                                             observation. When at a point on L we employ A, we decrease x while
                                                            keeping y constant and hence enter the B region; similarly, if we use B
                                                            at a point on L weenterthe A region (see Figure 2 above). It follows that
                                                            for a point on L an initial first choice of A is equivalent to an initial first
                                                            and second choice of A and then B, while, conversely, an initial first
                                                            choice of B is equivalent to an initial first and second choice of B and
                                                            then A.
                                                                      If we use A and then B and continue optimally, we have
                                                            (3)                    fab (x, ¥) = Pim % + Pi fetey + pi bef((1—1) x, (1 —7re) ¥),
                                                            and similarly
                                                            (4)                    faa(%,¥) = Pete¥ + Pi beri % + pi bef((l—n) x, (1 —r2) y).
                                                                      Equating fas and fga, the unknown function f disappears® and we
                                                            obtain the equation
                                                                       5      The meaning of this is that having survived both an A choice and a B choice,
                                                             it is no longer of any importance in the continuation of the process as to the original
                                                            order of these choices.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     67
                                                              STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                (5)                                      £11, x/(1 — pi) = pore y/(1 — po),
                                for L.
                                     It remains to establish this equation rigorously. Let us begin by proving
                                that there is a region near the x-axis where A is always the optimalfirst
                                choice.
                                     If y = 0, we have
                                                                                                   1/1                 1        1— 1 , 0
                                (6)                         f(x, 0) = Max pee ati                                                        rs) x         ]
                                                                            =— Pix + 61,f(1 — 1) Xx, 0).
                                Sincef(x, y) is continuousin y, it follows that
                               (7)                                 F(%,¥) > pa(tay +f(x, (L—7) y)),
                               for 0 < y < kx, where k is some small positive constant, since thestrict
                               inequality holds for y = 0.
                                    Thus we have a region in which A is usedfirst, shown below in Figure 3.
                                                               
                                                                 
                                                                                                   Figure 3
                                   Let us now take a point P = P (x, y), in the region between L and y
                              y = kx, with the property that (x, (1 — 7,) y) is in the shadedregion. In
                              other words, use ofB at P mustresult in an A-choice next, provided that
                              machine is undamaged. (This proviso is necessary when discussing the
                              process, but not when discussing the equation, as we have noted above.)
                                   If B is optimal at P, we obtain
                              (8)                                                    f(%, y) = faa (x, y),
                              68
                                 STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                 as given by (4). However, we know that below L,fra (x, y) < fap (x, ).
                 Hence B cannot be optimal at P. Proceeding inductively in this fashion
                 we extend the shaded region up to L.Since precisely the same argument
                 shows that the region between L and the y-axis is a B-region, we have
                 completed the proof of
                 THEOREM 2. Consider the equation
                                   _         bilx +f((l—7) x, y)],
                                                                          |. xy 20,
                 (9)      (9) = Max feny +f(a (L—n) 9)
                whereO< 1,0. <1,0<4,7,<01.
                   The solution 1s given by
                (10)           f(%, 9) = pilx +f((l— 1) x, y)],for
                                           Prtx/(1 — Pi) > P22 ¥/(1 — Po)
                                        = pelray +f(x, (lL—712) y)],for
                                           Pits x/(1l — pi) < pot2y/(1 — po).
                For p17, x/(1 — pi) = pete y/(1 — pe) erther choice is optimal.
                     § 9. Discussion
                   The solution has a very interesting interpretation. We may consider
                p17, x to be the immediate expected gain and (1 — #,) to be the imme-
                diate expected loss. The theorem then asserts that the solution consists
                of making the decision which at each instant maximizes theratio of
                immediate expected gain to immediate expected loss. As we shall see,
                this intriguing criterion occurs from time to time throughout the theory
                of dynamic programming.
                     § 10. Some generalizations
                   The same methodssuffice to prove the tworesults below.
                THEOREM 3. Consider the equation
                                                     N
                                                A: 2 pielerx+f(c’'x x, y)],
                                                    k=1
                (1)
                              f
                                (x,
                                   ¥)
                                      =
                                         Max
                                                     y
                                                B:
                                                    =
                                                       ge
                                                           [dx
                                                               y
                                                                 +
                                                                    f
                                                                      (x,
                                                                         a’x
                                                                             y)]
                where x, y > O and
                                                      N       N
                (2)            (a) pbx > 0, gx > 0, XY pe, 2 ge <1,
                                                    k=1     k=1
                               (b) l>cpdeg>Ocet+ecrH=@retdzk=il.
                                                                                             69
                                                             STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                               The optimal choice of operations 1s thefollowing: If
                                                                                 N                                  N
                                                                                & Peer                             & Qa
                                                                             k=1                                 k=1
                               (3)                                                     N            x >                     vn»
                                                                           1— » px                             1— » ax
                                                                                    k=1                                k=1
                               choose A; tfthe reverse inequality holds, choose B. In case ofequality, etther
                               choice 1s optimal.
                              THEOREM 4. Consider thefunctional equation
                                                                                               K
                                                                                                                                                                                    |]
                                                                                                                                                                      «.~,Xn)
                                                                                                                                                                Xi,
                                                                                                                                                        Cin
                                                                                                                                                    6,
                                                                                                                                               ..
                                                                                                                                        Xe,
                                                                                                                                (1,
                                                                                                                        +f
                                                                                                                   xi
                                                                                                     pixlCin
                                                                                              DX
                                                                                           [
                                                                                Max
                                                                          =
                                                                  %w)
                                                              +,
                                                         --
                                                  Xe,
                                          (x1,
                                      f
                              (4)
                                                                                    i       ok=1
                              where x; > O and
                                                                                               K
                                                                                                             <1,i1=1,2,...,n.
                                                                                                    pir
                                                                                              Y
                                                                                   0,
                                                                           pi
                                                                (a)
                              (5)
                                                                                            k=1
                                                                (b)        l>cu>0,cin + cor’ = 1.
                               The decision functions are
                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                Pik Cik
                                                                                                       k=1
                                                                                    D; (x) = —— K
                                                                                                                              Xi
                                                                                                        1—»pir
                                                                                                               k=1
                              in the sense that the index which yrelds the maximum ofDi (x)fort = 1,2,...,
                              n is the index to be chosen in (4). In case ofequality, it is a matter ofindrffer-
                              ence as to which 1s used.
                                   It is clear that we can combine Theorems3 and 4 into one more com-
                              prehensive result, which in turn can be generalized by the use of the
                               Stieltjes integral. Thus a version of (1) arising from a continuous dis-
                               tribution of outcomesis
                                                                                      [er+F(A—2)xdG,
                                                  f(x, vy) = Max
                                                                                      |) toy +4, —w) 9] a(w).
                               Weleave the derivation of the extensions of Theorems 3 and 4, and the
                              statements and proof of the corresponding existence and uniqueness
                               theorem, as exercises for the reader.
                               10
                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                        STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                                                              $11. The form off(x,y)
                                                                     Having obtained a very simple characterization of the optimal policy,
                                                           let us now turn ourattention to the functionf(x, y). In general, no simple
                                                           analvtic representation will exist. If, however, we consider the equation
                                                                                                                                                                                    a,x+t+a                                                                           C
                                                            (1)                                              f(x, vy) = Max i 7 eee]
                                                                                                                                                                                         1X + bev + gof(x, de y)
                                                            we can show that if c, and d, are connected by relation of the type c,”
                                                            = d,", with m and                                                                         positive integers, a piece-wise linear representation
                                                            for f (x, y) may be obtained.
                                                                      It is sufficient, in orderto illustrate the technique, to consider the sim-
                                                            plest case where the relation is cz = dy.
                                                             Let (x, y) be a point in the A-region.If A is applied to (x, y), this point is
                                                            transformed into (c, x, y), which maybe in either an A- or a B-region.
                                                            Let L, be theline that is transformed into L* when (x, y) goes into (c. x, ¥),
                                                            let L, be the line transformed into L,, and so on. Similarly,let 47, be the
                                                            line transformed into L when(x, y) goes into (x, d, y), and so on. In the
                                                            sector LOL,, A is used first, followed by B, as shown below.
                                                                                                                                      y                                          My                                                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                      BA                                                                                    LY
                                                                                                                                                                                                        AB                                                                                     Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A*B
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                       0                                                                                                                                                     X
                                                                                                                                                                                                       igure 4
                                                             Hence, for (x, y) in this sector we obtain
                                                             (2)                                                      f(x,y) = a,x + ay + pof(C2 %, y)
                                                                                                                                                       = A,X + a,y + po(di Cex + bey) + Go baf(Cox, C2)
                                                                                                                                                      = (a, + po bile) X + (a2 + po be) ¥ + bs Galaf(%,y)
                                                                       6      The boundary line, whose equation obtained as above,is
                                                                      [2,(1 — q,) + 4, (p,e, — 1) ]x = [6, (1 — P,) + a, (4,4, —1) ly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        71
                                                                                                                        STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                                                     This yields
                                                                                                                                                                      (a, + pe dy Co) x + (@, + fo be) y
                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                            (3)                                                          f(x, 9) =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 — D2 92 Ce
                                                            for (x, y) in LOL,. Similarly, we obtain a linear expression forfin LOM,.
                                                            Having obtained the representationsin these sectors, it 1s clear that we
                                                            obtain linear expressions in L, OL,, and so on.
                                                                               § 12. The problem for a finite number of stages
                                                                      Let usfirst establish
                                                            THEOREM 5. Consider the recurrence relations
                                                            (1)                        fi (x, y) = Max {0111 x, fo 2 Y}
                                                                                                                                                                                    A:
                                                                                                                                                                                                         pylryx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (Qn)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #91)
                                                                                            N+
                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                                        =M
                                                                                       Ju
                                                                                                         +1
                                                                                                                (%,
                                                                                                                            9)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                                                            ax
                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                         beltey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (x,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   y)]
                                                            N =1,2,....
                                                            For each N, there are two decision regions.
                                                            PRooF. For each N > 2, the points determined by the condition that AB
                                                            plus an optimal continuation for the remaining (N-2) moves1s equivalent
                                                            to BA plus an optimal continuation for the remaining (N-2) moveslie on
                                                            the same line L we have determined above, namely
                                                                                                                                                                                     Pit x _ Pots. V
                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                            ”)                                                                                                 m7                   1—p, 1—pf,”
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Figure 4a
                                                                      For the N-stage process, any policy, and consequently, any optimal
                                                            policy has the form
                                                            (3)                                                                                                   Sn: A% Bo, ... Atn Bon,
                                                            where the a; and 0; are positive integers or zero, restricted by the condi-
                                                            tion, XY (a; + b:) = N.
                                                            12
                                                                                                                              STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                                                         Let us now consider a point P = P (x, y) lying above L. If A is used at
                                                               P, there are two possibilities: either A is used & times in succession, and
                                                               then followed by B,
                                                               or Sn = A%. Let us consider the first case. If A is used (k — 1) times in
                                                               succession, we reach a point P’ further above L. At P’, AB cannot be the
                                                               first two moves in an optimal (N — k + 1)-stage policy, since BA plus
                                                               an optimal continuation is superior.
                                                                         Consequently above L,either B is usedfirst, or the optimal policy is
                                                               AN, Let us now showthat if A” is optimal at P, then it is optimal in the
                                                               region between OP andthe x-axis.
                                                                        To demonstrate this we begin with the observation that it is permis-
                                                              sible to assume that x + y=1,0< x,y <1, because of the homoge-
                                                              neity offw (x, y) asa function of x and y. Considering the N-stage process,
                                                               we see that there are 2” possible policies, say P,, P2, ..., Pen. Each of
                                                               these policies used at a point (x, y) yields a N-stage return which is a
                                                              linear function of x and y, say Li (x, y). For x + y = 1, we may plot
                                                              these functions obtaininga set of 2% straight lines,
                                                                                                                                                  “A a
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Se
                                                                                                                                                                  aN
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                          O                                                              x
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Figure 5
                                                              If N were 2, so that the four policiesAA, AB,BA,BB yielded four lines
                                                             as above, the maximumreturn as a function of x would have the form
                                                                                                                                f (x,y)
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                              O                                                           X                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Figure 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                             STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                                               It is clear that Ais an optimal policy for y = 0, x = 1. It follows thatif
                                                               Ais optimal at (x, y), 0 < y <1, the line corresponding to Awill do-
                                                               minate all other lines for x << x <1.
                                                                         Combining the aboveresults we see that for any N,, the boundary be-
                                                               tween the A-region and the B-region will either be AB = BA orAY =M,,
                                                               where M,1s a policy of complicated form, or BY = M,1s also a complic-
                                                               ated policy.
                                                                        Wecan nowestablish a sharperresult:
                                                               THEOREM 6. The decision regions for fy converge towards those of f as
                                                              N—~ co in a monotone fashion. There is always an integer No with the
                                                              property thatfor N > N,the regionsforfn are identical with those off.
                                                              ProoF: Consider the situation for N = 3. Let L, be the boundary line
                                                              for the two-stage process, and assumethat therelative positions of L,
                                                              and L are as shownbelow.
                                                                                                           y                                                                         Lo                                                     Le (am!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L: AB=BA
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 7
                                                                       Let L, (A-) denote theline transformed into L,whenA is usedatapoint
                                                            on L,(A-), which is to say when(x, y) is transformed into (cx, y). Let Q
                                                             be a point in the sector between L, and L, (A-1). If A is used at Q as the
                                                            first move in a three-stage policy, B is used next, since the transformed
                                                            point is in the B-region for a two stage process. However, if Q 1s aboveL,
                                                             we know that AB cannot be the first two moves of an optimalpolicy.
                                                             Hence B is used at Q. This shows that the B-region for the three-stage
                                                            processis at least that containing the region above L, (A-1). This process
                                                            maybe continuedfor larger and larger N until L; (A-"), for somefinite &,
                                                            lies below L. At this point, the boundary line becomes AB = BA,and
                                                            remainsso for all larger N.
                                                                               § 13. A three-choice problem
                                                                     Let us now assumethatin addition to the two A and B choicesalready
                                                            discussed, we have a third choice which is a compromise between the A
                                                            T4
                                                                                                                          STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                                             and B choices. The equation we obtain in this case takes the form
                                                                                                                                                      A:
                                                                                                                                                                      py
                                                                                                                                                                                  [rn
                                                                                                                                                                                              «
                                                                                                                                                                                                      +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                f((l—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              x,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         y)]
                                                             (1)
                                                                              f(x,y)
                                                                                                               =
                                                                                                                           Max]
                                                                                                                                                       B:
                                                                                                                                                                      polrey
                                                                                                                                                                                                      +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                f(x,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               —1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        y)]
                                                                                                                                                |
                                                                                                                                                       C:
                                                                                                                                                                      ps[rsx
                                                                                                                                                                                                      +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ray
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              f((1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   —72)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          y)]
                                                             where 0< 73,7, << landO< #; <1, and the quantities ,, 3, 71,73
                                                             satisfy the previous inequalities.
                                                                       On the basis of what we know concerningthesolution of the equation
                                                             where the C-term is missing, it might be suspected that the solution of
                                                             this equation would be determined in the following way: There are three
                                                            decision regions, as in the figure below, with A, B and C each optimal
                                                            first choices in these regions
                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Figure 8
                                                                      Unfortunately, a counter-example has been constructed showing that
                                                            this is not true generally. It shows, by meansof a fairly complicated but
                                                            straightforward calculation, that the solution can, for suitable values of
                                                            the parameter, take the form shownin Figure 9 below.
                                                                     Thesolution of (1) above seemsto be quite a difficult problem, and very
                                                            little is known concerning the characterof the solution.
                                                                                                                                                            y
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Figure 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15
                                                         STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                                  It is not even known whetheror not the numberof decision regionsis
                             always finite and whether the numberis uniformly boundediffinite. To
                             obtain some information about this problem in a part of the parameter
                             space, we shall consider a continuousversion in Chapter8, where with the
                             aid of variational techniques the decision regions may be determined.
                                 For the continuous version they do assume the simple form shown in
                             the first figure above, Figure 8.
                                      § 14. A stability theorem
                                 Let us now derive a stability theorem for the solution ? of the equation
                                                                                      A: bi[n*+f((l—n) x, 0M
                             (1)
                                                     I
                                                         (%,
                                                               y)
                                                                    =
                                                                          Max
                                                                                    fF
                                                                                              palrey
                                                                                                             +
                                                                                                                  f(x,
                                                                                                                            (lL
                                                                                                                                —72)
                                                                                                                                            ¥)]
                             THEOREM 7. Let g (x, y) be the solution of
                                                                         A: £,[71,% +g ((1 —1) x, y)]
                             (2)        g (x9) — Max |                                                                              | + 4(e9).
                                                                         B: pal[rey + g (x, (1 —72) ¥)]
                             Then, in any rectangle R:0<x< X,0< ys Y
                            (3)                              I(%, ¥) — 8 (x, y) |< Max | h(x, y) |/9,
                            where q = Min ((1 — 4,), (1 — ,)).
                            Proor. The proof proceeds by successive approximations, as in the
                            correspondingsection in Chapter 1. Consequently, we shall merely sketch
                            the details. Set
                            (4)                            fi (*, y) = Max [p,7, x, bo 12]
                                                           gi (*, ¥) = Max [p71 %, Petey]                                    + A(x, y).
                            and, generally,
                                                                            A:
                                                                                    py
                                                                                         [11%
                                                                                                   +
                                                                                                       fa
                                                                                                             ((l
                                                                                                                   —
                                                                                                                         14)
                                                                                                                               *,
                                                                                                                                    My
                                    tn
                                          +1
                                               (Xx,
                                                     y)
                                                           =
                                                                Max
                                                                           *
                                                                                    he
                                                                                         [%.
                                                                                               V
                                                                                                   +
                                                                                                       fn
                                                                                                             (x,
                                                                                                                   (1
                                                                                                                        —_—-
                                                                                                                             12)
                                                                                                                                    ¥)]
                            (5)
                                                                                                                                    y)
                                                                                                                                x,
                                                                                                                    —7,)
                                                                                                              ((1
                                                                                                        gn
                                                                                                   +
                                                                                         [11%
                                                                                    Di
                                                                           és
                                                                Max
                                                           =
                                                     y)
                                          +1(x,
                                     gn
                                                                                                                                                   h(x,          ¥).
                                                                             B: pe [%2¥ + gn (x, (1 — 72) mI Ay)
                            It 1s clear that
                            (6)                             fi (% 9) —&i(% y) |< Max | A(x, y) |.
                                7   By the term “‘solution’’, here and in the following pages, we shall mean the
                            unique solution in the appropriate function class.
                            76
                              STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
               Applying the techniques used repeatedly above, we see that
               (7)  Max |fn +1 (%, Y) — gn til(%y) |< Max Ps |fn (%, y) — gn (x, ¥)|
                                      + Max |/ |
               where p; = Max(,, ,). Iteration of this inequality yields
                                                                              bs"),
                                                                        +--+
                                                                     bs
                                                                  +
                                                               (1
                                                              |
                                                           |b
                                                     Max
                                                 |
                                              y)
                                           (*,
                                        8m
                                     —
                                   ¥)
                                (*,
                             fu
                            |
                      Max
               (8)
               forn = 2, ...,. Letting » — oo we obtain the stated result.
                    Exercises and Research Problems for Chapter IT
               1. With reference to the process described in § 2, consider the case
               where the purpose of the process is to maximize the expected value of
               gy (R), where R is the total return, and @ (z) is a given function of z.
               Define the function
               f(x, y, a) = expected value of y(R) obtained employing an optimal
                            policy with initial quantities x and y in the respective mines
                            and a quantity a already mined.
               Show thatf(x, y, a) satisfies the following functional equation
                                   A:
                                        pte
                                              ea
                                                       Sn)
                                                               eh
                                                                    el]
                                                                              x,y
                                                                                  >0
               I(x, y, a) = Max
                                   B:
                                       pef
                                            (x,
                                               72'¥,@
                                                       +729)
                                                               +
                                                                  pe’
                                                                     V(@l>
               Ft (9, O, a) = y (4).
               Here p,' = 1— ,, d,. = 1— fa, 7) = 1—1n, 7.) =1—”7,
               2. Establish an existence and uniqueness theorem for this equation.
               3. Consider the case where 9 (z) is defined as follows: o (z) = 0,
               O0<z<4u,9(z)=1,2 >4u4, whereu<x+/y.
               4, Let g (x, y) = Max Exp(e’"), b > 0, where Exp stands for expected
                                   P
               value and we maximizeoverall policies P. Show that g (x, y) satisfies the
               equation
                                              A: py e"%7 g(r,’ x,y) + a
                            § (x, y) = Max Ie be eor.y g (x, ro y) a: be’
                                                                                        TT
                               STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
                5. Show that the solution of the above equation is determined by the
                relation between the functions , (e.% — 1)/f,' and py, (e724 — 1)/,’
                6. Show that Theorem 2 is the limiting case of this result as b > 0.
                7. The function g (x, 0) satisfies the equation
                                   g (x, 0) = py eh” g(r,’ x, 0) + pr’.
                Obtain its asymptotic behavior as x —> oo.
                8. Referring to Problem 1 obtain somesufficient conditions upon @ (x)
                which will ensure precisely two decision regions.
                9. Solve the equation
                                         |As. pilin x +f(n'*, y)]
                         f(x, y) = Max|    B: palray +f(x, 72° y)]
                                         |C: pslrsx tray +f(tx,ty)]
                10. Solve the equation
                                                 A: x +f(ax, °)]
                               f(x, ¥) = Max
                                                 B: y +f(cy, dx)
                assuming thatO<a,b,c,d< 1.                                  (Gross-Shapiro}
                11. Consider the process described in § 2 under the assumption that there
                is a probability #, of obtaining 7, x and continuing, a probability p, of
                obtaining nothing and continuing, and a probability #, of obtaining
                nothing and terminating, if A is chosen, with 4, + ~, + ~, = 1, with
                similar probabilities q,, gz, 73 if B is chosen. Show that the corresponding
                functional equation is
                                      A:
                                          Py
                                             [7
                                                x
                                                  +
                                                    f((1
                                                          —
                                                             1)
                                                                x,
                                                                   y)]
                                                                      +
                                                                         bef
                                                                              (%,
                                                                                 ”)
                    ji) = Max|
                                      Bi
                                          a
                                           [si
                                                y +f
                                                       (x,
                                                           (1—
                                                                sy)
                                                                   ¥)]
                                                                       +
                                                                          Of
                                                                            (x,
                                                                                 y)
                and that this may be written in the simpler form
                                           A:
                                               is.
                                                       rx
                                                            +
                                                               f((l—n)
                                                                           %
                                                                             9)
                         f(x,
                              vy)
                                 =
                                    Max
                                           B:
                                               _s
                                                       isiy
                                                            +
                                                              f(x,
                                                                    (l—s,)
                                                                             ¥)]
                                                 —
                                                    Ve
                12. Consider the process described in § 2 in which it is not possible to
                observe the effect of any of the decisions once the process hasstarted.
                78
                          STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
             Discuss the problem of determining the policies maximizing the expected
             return in the followingsituations:
               a. when the machine is undamaged, it mines a fixed fraction of the
                  gold in any particular mine.
               b. when the machine is undamaged,there is a distribution of returns.
             Suppose that we wish to maximize the probability that the return ex-
             ceeds a fixed quantity R,.
             13. Consider the process described in § 2 under the assumption that the
             machine minesafixedquantityin each mine, dependent upon the mine,in
             place of a fixed fraction, as long as the amount remaining in the mine
             exceeds the fixed amount.
             14. Show that the equation in (5.1) is equivalent to
                                   A:
                                       #,[71+(
                                                 —
                                                    71)
                                                      f
                                                        (2/(1
                                                            —
                                                               14))]
                       J
                         (2)
                           =
                              Max
                                   f
                                       pa
                                          [raz
                                              +f
                                                 ((l—
                                                       72)
                                                         2)]
                                                                  |
             for0O<
                    z
                      < co.
             15. Consider the equation
                                       A: rx +f((l—17) x, y)    |
                        I
                          (%,
                             y)
                               =
                                  Max
                                      |
                                           qisy
                                                +
                                                  f(x,
                                                      (1
                                                        —
                                                           s)
                                                             y)]
             forx,y >0,0<7,5,¢ <1.
                 Show that a solution is
                                f(x, 9) =" G05)’
             16. Show that the gold-mining process generating this equation possesses
             no optimal policy, 1.e. no policy yielding this return, but that there are
             arbitrarily many policies yielding a return of more than
                             x + “Psforany 6>0
                                  1—gq(1l—s)            ¥
             17. Prove that the solution above is not unique in the class of bounded
             functions over any boundedrectangle, but that it is unique over theclass
             of functions f(x,y) for which f(0, 0) = 0, f(x,y) is continuous at
             x=y = 0.
                        Bibliography and Comments for Chapter II
               § 1. The concept of “‘decision regions’’ is a very important one in the
             study of decision processes. We shall meet it again in Chapter VIII, where it
                                                                            19
                  STOCHASTIC MULTI-STAGE DECISION PROCESS
         guides usto the solution of the variational problems treated there, and again
         in Chapter IX, in connection with variational problems with constraints. An
         interesting paperin this connection is K. D. Arrow, D. Blackwell, M. Girshick,
         ‘Bayes and Minimax Solutions of Sequential Decision Problems,’’ Econo-
         metrica, vol. 17 (1949), pp. 213-214.
          § 8. The result of § 8 was obtained in conjunction with M. Shiffmanin
         the summerof 1950.
          § 12. The type of geometric argument used here was extensively developed
         by S. Karlin and H. N. Shapiro to give an alternative proof of Theorem 2
         and other results.
          § 13. The first counter-example was obtained by S. Karlin and H. N.
         Shapiro after a great deal of fruitless effort had been expended attempting
         to establish a result based upon Figure 8. See S. Karlin and H. N. Shapiro,
         “Decision Processes and Functional Equations,’’ RM-—933, Sept. 1952, The
         RAND Corporation.
         80
                                                        CHAPTERIII
                     The Structure of Dynamic Programming Processes
                         § 1. Introduction
                      In this chapter we wish to examine and comparetheessential features
                   of the two processes we have considered in some detail in the first and
                   second chapters. Disparate as these processes may seem atfirst glance,
                   one being of deterministic type with a stochastic version and the other
                   of a stochastic type with no deterministic version, we shall see that from
                   an abstract point of view they are examples of the same general typeof
                   process. It is therefore no accident that they are governed by functional
                   equationsof a similar form.
                      After a discussion and analysis of these similarities, we shall consider
                   the formulation of the more general decision processes and from these
                   derive a numberof functional equations possessing a commonstructure.
                   Wecould, if we so desired, condense these into one all-embracing func-
                   tional equation. However, since extreme generality is only gained at the
                   expenseof fine detail, it seems decidedly better, from both a conceptual
                   and analytic point of view, to consider separately a numberof important
                   sub-categories of processes, each of which possesses certain distinctive
                   mathematical and physical features.
                      Weshall close the chapter with a further discussion of the concept of
                   approximation in function space, which we have already encountered in
                   the previous chapters, and a demonstration of its most important pro-
                   perty, that of monotone convergence.
                         § 2. Discussion of the two preceding processes
                      Let us begin by observing that the processes discussed in Chapters I
                   and II have the following features in common:
                      a.  In each case we have a physical system characterized at any stage
                          by a small set of parameters, the state variables.
                      b. At each stage of either process we have a choice of a numberof
                          decisions.
                      c.  The effect of a decision is a transformation of the state variables.
                      d. The past history of the system is of no importance in determining
                          future actions.
                                                                                                              81
                                                DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                         e,  The purpose of the process is to maximize somefunction of the state
                             variables.
                         We have purposely left the description a little vague, since it is the
                     spirit of the approachto these processesthatis significant rather than the
                     letter of some rigid formulation. It is extremely importantto realize that
                     one can neither axiomatize mathematical formulation norlegislate away
                     ingenuity. In some problems,the state variables and the transformations
                     are forced upon us; in others there is a choice in these matters and the
                     analytic solution stands or falls upon this choice; in still others, the state
                     variables and sometimes the transformations must beartificially con-
                     structed. Experience alone, combined with often laborioustrial anderror,
                     will yield suitable formulations of involved processes.
                        Let us now identify the two processes discussed in the foregoing
                     chapters with the description given above.
                        In the unbounded multi-stage allocation process, the state variables
                     are x, the quantity of resources, and z the return obtainedupto the cur-
                     rent stage. The decision at any stage consists of an allocation of a quan-
                     tity y to the first activity where 0 < y < x. This decision hastheeffect of
                     transforming x into ay + 6 (x — y) and zintoz + g(y) + A(x — yy). The
                     purpose of the process is to maximizethe final valueofz.
                        In the stochastic gold-mining process, the state variables are x and y,
                     the present levels of the two mines, and z the amount of gold mined to
                     date. The decision at any stage consists of a choice of Anaconda or Bo-
                     nanza, If Anaconda is chosen, (%, y) goes into ((1 —7,) x, y) and z into
                     z+ 7r,x, and if Bonanza,(x, y) goes into (x, (1 — 7.) y) and z into z + roy.
                     The purpose of the process is to maximize the expected value of z obtained
                     before the machine is defunct.
                        In the finite versions of both processes, we have the additional para-
                     meter of time, manifesting itself in the form of the numberofstagesre-
                     maining in the process. It is, however, very useful to keep this state
                     variable distinct from theothers,since, as usual, time plays a uniquerole.
                        Let us now agree to the following terminology: A policy is any rule for
                     making decisions whichyields an allowable sequence of decisions; and an
                     optimal policy is a policy which maximizes a preassigned function of the
                     final state variables. A more precise definition of a policy is not as readily
                    obtained as might be thought. Although nottoo difficult for deterministic
                    processes, stochastic processes require more care. For any particular
                    process, it is not difficult to render the concept exact. The key wordis,
                    of course, ‘‘allowable’’.
                        A convenient term for this preassigned function of the final state vari-
                    ables is criterion function. In many applications, the determination of a
                    propercriterion function is a matter of some difficulty. From the analytic
                    82
                                                DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                      point of view, a solution may be quite easy to obtain for onecriterion
                      function, and quite difficult for a closely related one. It is well, conse-
                     quently, to retain a certain degree of flexibility in the choice of such
                     functions.
                            § 3. The principle of optimality
                         In each process, the functional equation governing the process was
                     obtained by an application of the following intuitive:
                      PRINCIPLE OF OPTIMALITY. An optimal policy has the property that what-
                     ever the initial state and initial decision are, the remaining decisions must
                     constitute an optimal policy with regard to the state resulting from the first
                     decision.
                         The mathematical transliteration of this simple principle will yield all
                     the functional equations we shall encounter throughout the remainder
                     of the book. A proof by contradiction is immediate.
                            § 4. Mathematical formulation—I. A discrete deterministic
                                  process
                        Let us now consider a deterministic process, by which we meanthat the
                     outcomeofadecision is uniquely determined bythe decision, and assume
                     that the state of the system, apart from the time dependence,is described
                     at any stage by an M-dimensional vector p = (f,, po, ..., Par), Con-
                     strained to lie within some region D, Let T = {Ty} where g runs over a
                     set S which maybefinite, enumerable, composed of continua, or a com-
                     bination of sets of this type, be a set of transformations with the property
                     that fe D implies that Ty (f) e D for all geS, whichis to say that any
                     transformation 7, carries P into itself.
                        The term ‘‘discrete’’ signifies here that we have a process consisting of
                     a finite or denumerably infinite numberof stages.
                        A policy, for the finite process which weshall considerfirst, consists of
                    a selection of N transformations in order, P = (7,, T2, ..., Tw),1 yielding
                    successively the sequence of states
                      1)                                 Pr — T, (p),
                                                         Pe —= T, (Pi),
                                                         px = Ty (py-1).
                        These transformations are to be chosen to maximize a given function,
                     R, of the final state py.
                        * where we write 7, for T,, T, for T,, and so on.
                                                           1             2
                                                                                                                        83
                                                               DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                There are a numberof cases in whichit is easy to see that a maximum
                            will exist, in which case an optimal policy exists. The simplest is that
                            where there are only a finite number of allowable choices for g at each
                            stage. Perhaps next in orderof simplicity is where we assume that Disa
                            finite closed region, with R (f) continuous in # for pe D, Tq (p) jointly
                            continuous in # and q for all # ¢ D andall g belonging to a finite closed
                            region S.
                                These two cases cover the most importantof the finite processes, while
                            their limiting forms account for the unbounded processes.
                                Observe that the maximum value of R (fy), as determined by an
                            optimal policy, will be a function only of the initial vector # and the
                            number of stages N. Let us then define our basic auxiliary functions
                            (2)                      fn (f) = Max R (py)
                                                                 = the N-stage return obtained starting from an ini-
                                                                 tial state # and using an optimalpolicy.
                            This sequence is defined for N = 1, 2, ..., and for pe D.
                                Simple as this step is, it represents a fundamental principle in analysis,
                            the principle of continusty. In order to solve our original problem involv-
                            ing oneinitial vector, #, and a multi-stage process of a definite numberof
                            stages, N, we consider the entire set of maximization problemsarising
                            from arbitrary values of # and from an arbitrary numberof stages.
                                The original process has thus been imbedded within a family of similar
                            processes. In place of attempting to determine the characteristics of an
                           optimal policy for an isolated process, we shall attempt to deduce the
                            commonproperties of the set of optimal policies possessed by the mem-
                           bers of the family.
                                This procedure will enable us to resolve the original problem in a num-
                           ber of cases where direct methodsfail.
                                To derive a recurrence relation connecting the membersof the sequence
                           {fw (p)}, let us employ the principle of optimality stated above in 3.
                           Assume that we choose some transformation 7, as a result of our first
                           decision, obtaining in this way a newstate vector, T, (p). The maximum
                           “return’’? from the following (N — 1) stagesis, by definition,fy—, (Tq (p)).
                           It follows that if we wish to maximize the total N-stage return g must
                           now be chosen so as to maximize this N — 1 stage return. The result
                           is the basic recurrence relation
                           (3)                                       in (p) = Maxfav ~1(Tq(p)),
                           for N > 2, with                                                  :
                               2  i.e. the value of the criterion function.
                           84
                                     DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                (4)                       fi lt) = Max R (Tq (6))
                                                     ge
                   Observe thatfw (p) is unique, but that the gq which maximizesis not
                necessarily so. Thus the maximum return is uniquely determined, but
                there may be many optimal policies which yield this return.
                   For the case of an unboundedprocess, the sequence{fw(p)} is replaced
                by asingle function f(p), the total return obtained using an optimal
                policy starting from state , and the recurrencerelation is replaced by the
                functional equation
                (5)                        f(b) = Maxf(Tq (A)).
                      § 5. Mathematical formulation—II. A discrete stochastic
                           process
                   Let us once again consider a discrete process, but one in which the
                transformations which occurare stochastic rather than deterministic.
                   Adecision nowresults in a distribution of transformations, rather than
                a single transformation. Theinitial vector # 1s transformed into a stochas-
                tic vector z with an associated distribution function dG, (p, z), depend-
                ent upon # andthe choice q.
                   Two distinct types of processes arise, depending upon whether we
                assume that z is knownafter the decision has been made and before the
                next decision has to be made, or whether we assume that only the dis-
                tribution function is known. Weshall only consider processesof the first
                type in this volume, since processes of the second type require in general
                the concept of functions of functions, which is to sayfunctionals.
                   It is clear, as we have stated several times before, that it is now on the
                whole meaningless to speak of maximizing the return. Rather we must
                agree to measure the value of a policy in terms of some average value of
                the function of the final state. Let us call this expected valuethe return.
                   Beginning with the case of a finite process, we definefw (p) as in (4.2).
                If z is a state resulting from any initial transformation JT,, the return
                from the last N — 1 stages will befw — , (z), upon the employment of an
                optimal policy. The expected return as a result of the initial choice of Tg
                is therefore
                (1                          [pf~2)dab,2)
                Consequently, the recurrence relation for the sequence{fw (p)} is
                (2)            fu (6) =Max |fr~1(2) dGe(p, 2), N >2,
                                           qeé
                with
                                                                                               85
                                         DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                  (3)                     fi (P) = Max            R (2) dGq(p,2).
                                                     geS    JzeD
                     Considering the unbounded process, we obtain the functional relation
                  (4)                     f(b) =Max |f(2) dGq (p, 2)
                                                     ge
                       § 6. Mathematical formulation—III. A continuous determin-
                             istic process
                     There are a numberof interesting processes that require that decisions
                  be made at each point of a continuum, such as a time interval. The
                  simplest examples of processes of this character are furnished by the
                  calculus of variations. As we shall see in Chapter IX below,this conception
                  of the calculus of variations leads to a new view of various partsof this
                  classical theory.
                     Let us define
                  (1)  f(f; T) = the return obtained over a time interval [0, 7] starting
                                     from the initial state # and employing an optimalpolicy.
                     Although weconsider the process as one consisting of choices made at
                  each point ¢ on [0, 7], it is better to begin with the concept of choosing
                  policies, which is to say functions, over intervals, and then pass to the
                  limit as these intervals shrink to points. The analogue of (4.3) is
                  (2)                       f(pi5S +7) = Max f(po; T)
                                                                D [0, 8}
                  where the maximum is taken overall allowable decisions made over the
                  interval [0O, S].
                     As soon as we consider infinite processes, occurring as the result of
                  either unbounded sequences of operations, or because of choices made
                  over continua, we are confronted with the difficulty of establishing the
                  existence of an actual maximum rather than a supremum.In general,
                  therefore, in the discussion of processes of continuous type, it is better to
                  use initially the equation
                  (3)                        f~PS+T)= Supf(po; .),
                  whichis usually easy to establish, and then show, undersuitable assump-
                  tions that the maximum is actually attained.
                     Asweshall see in Chapter IX,the limiting form of (2) asS> Oisanon-
                  linear partial differential equation. This is the important form for actual
                  analytic utilization. For numerical purposes, S is kept non-zero but small.
                     3 Weshall show, in Chapter IX, that it is possible to avoid many of the quite
                  difficult rigorous details involved in this limiting procedure if we are interested
                  only in the computational solution of variational processes.
                  86
                                           DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                         § 7. Continuous stochastic processes
                      An interesting and challenging question which awaits further explora-
                   tion is the formulation and solution of general classes of continuoussto-
                   chastic decision processes of both one-person and two-person variety.
                   Although we shalldiscussaparticularprocess inChapterVIII, weshallnot
                   discuss the general formulation of continuous stochastic decision proces-
                   ses here, since a rigorous treatment requires delicate and involved argu-
                   mentation based upon sophisticated concepts.
                         § 8. Generalizations
                      It will be apparent to the reader that the functional equations we have
                   derived above for the case where the state variables and the decision
                   variables were constrained to finite dimensional Euclidean spaces can be
                   extended to cover the case where the state variables and decision variables
                   are clements of more general mathematical spaces, such as Banach
                   spaces.
                      Rather than present this extension abstractly we prefer to wait untila
                   second volume where wewill discuss examples ot these more general pro-
                   cesses. The theory of integral equations and variational problems involv-
                   ing functions of several variables, as well as more general stochastic
                   processes, all afford examples of processes which escapethefinite dimen-
                   sional formulation to which we haverestricted ourselves in this volume,
                   and require for their formulation in the foregoing terms the theory of
                   functionals and operations.
                         §9. Causality and optimality
                      Consider a multi-stage process involving no decisions, say one generated
                   by the systemof differential equations,
                   (1)        Ax;i/dt == gi (%1, Xe, ..., Xn), Xi (0) = ci, 2 =~ 1,2, ..., N,
                   which may, more compactly, be written in vector form
                   (2)                           dx/dt = g(x), x(0) =c.
                   The state of the system at time #, taking for granted existence and uni-
                   quenessof the solution, is a function only of c and ¢, thus we may write
                   (3)                                 v(t) = fc, 4).
                      The uniqueness of the solution leads to the functional equation
                   (4)                          flos+t) =f(flc.s) 4),
                   for s,  >0, an analytical transliteration of the lawofcausality. Thisequa-
                   tion expresses the fundamental semi-group property of processesof this
                   type.
                                                                                                            87
                     DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
           Comparing (4) above with (6.2), we see that we may regard multi-stage
         decision processes as furnishing a natural extension of the theory of
         semi-groups. Any further discussion here along these lines would carry
         us beyond ourself-imposed limits, and we shall consequently content
         ourselves with the above observation.
            § 10. Approximation in policy space
           In solving a functional equation such as (4.4) or (5.3), we shall in Chapter
         IV make use of that generalfactotumof analysis, themethodofsuccessive
         approximations. The method very briefly, consists of choosing an initial
         functionf, (p), and then determining a sequence of functions,{fw (p)}, by
         means of the algorithm
         (1)     fw (Pp) = Maxfy ~ , (Tq (p)), N = 1,2, ...
         as, for instance, in (4.4) We have already employed this method in dea-
         ling with the equations of Chapters [ and II.
           In many important cases, this method after a suitable preliminary
         preparation of the equation actually leads to a convergent sequence
         whoselimit yields the solution of the functional equation.* We shall make
         extensive use of it in the following chapter.
           In the theory of dynamic programming, however, we have an alternate
         method of approximation which is equally important in its ownright, a
         method which wecall “approximation in policy space’.
           Before discussing this method of approximation, let us observe that
         there is a natural duality existing in dynamic programming processesbe-
         tween the function f(f) measuring the overall return, and the optimal
         policy (or policies) which yields this return. Each can be used to determine
         the other, with the additional feature that a knowledge off(p) yields all
         optimal policies, since it determines all maximizing indices g in an equa-
         tion such as (4.4), while a knowledge of any particular optimal policy
         yieldsf(p).
           The maximizing index g can be considered to be a function of #. If the
         index is not unique, we have a multi-valued function. Whereas wecall
         f(p) an element in function space, let us call g = q (pf) an element of
         policy space. Both spaces are, of course, function spaces, but it is worth
         distinguishing between them,since their elements are quite different in
         meaning.
           It follows now that we have two ways of makingan initial approxima-
           4 It is interesting to observe that in many theories, as, for example, partial
         ditferential equations, the preliminary transformation of the equation is of such
         a nature that the principal difficulty of the existence proof resides in the demon-
         stration that the limit function actually satisfies the original equation.
         88
                                                           DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                         tion. We may approximateto/(f), as we do ordinarily in the method of
                          successive approximation, or we may, andthis is a feature of the func-
                          tional equations belonging to dynamic programming processes, approxi-
                          mate initially in policy space.§
                              Choosing an initial approximation go = qo (p), we compute the return
                          from this policy by meansof the functional equation
                          (2)                                           fo (p) = fo (Tq,(6).
                         We havealready given an example of this in § 11 of ChapterI.
                              There are now two ways we can proceed. Taking the function of g,
                         fo (Iq (f)), we can determine a function g (p) which maximizes. Call this
                          function g, (p). Using this new policy, we determinef, (p), the new return,
                          by means of the functional equation
                         3)                                             fi (p) =f; (Tq, (p)).
                         This equationis solved iteratively, as in (11.3) and (11.4) of ChapterI.
                              Continuing in this way, we obtain two sequences{fy (p)} and {qn(f)}.
                              In place of this procedure, we can define
                          (4)                                       fi (p) = maxfo (Tq (p));
                          and then continue inductively, employing the usual methodof successive
                         approximations,
                         (5)                                    fw +1 (P) = Maxfv (Tq (A)).
                              It is immediate that f, >f. and thus that the sequence {fv} is mono-
                         tone increasing. Weshall discuss the convergence of this process in the
                         next chapter.
                              The first procedure, although a more natural one, seems more difficult
                          to treat rigorously and we shall not consider it here. In dealing with
                          various types of continuous processes, such as those furnished by the
                          calculus of variations, it would seem, however, that this technique is
                         required for successive approximations. Weshall discuss this topic again
                         in Chapter IX.
                              5  Actually this type of approximation is tacitly encountered in other branches
                          of analysis as, for instance, in the theory of differential equations, where a differ-
                          ential equation is frequently replaced by a difference equation for approximation
                          purposes. This replaces the space of general functions by the subspace of step-
                          functions.
                                                                                                                                                      89
                                                   DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                              Exercises and Research Problems for Chapter III
                       1.  Suppose that we are given the information that a ball is in one of NV
                       boxes, and the a priori probability, fx, that it is in the £t® box. Show that
                       the procedure -which minimizes the expected time required to find the
                       ball consists of looking in the most likely box first.
                       2.  Consider the more general process where the time consumedin exam-
                       ining the kt® box is ¢x, and where there is a probability gx that any
                       particular examinationof the R'® box will yield no information concerning
                       its contents. When this happens, we continue the search operation with
                       the information already available.
                          Let f(p1, fe, ..-, Pw) be the expected time required to obtain theball
                      using an optimal policy. Show that this function satisfies the equation
                                                                   br
                      T(pu pe, ---, Py) = Min Ns + (1—pn)f(pi*,po*, 10). .bs")]
                                                        k
                      where p;* = ~; /(1 — px) and the 0 occursin the R'® place.
                      3. Prove that if we wish to obtain the ball, the optimal policy consists of
                      examining the box for which px (1 — qx)/tx 1s a maximum first. On the
                      other hand, if we merely wish to locate the box containing the ball in the
                      minimum expected time, the box for which this quantity is a maximum
                      is examinedfirst, or not atall.
                      4, Consider the situation in which we can simultaneously perform oper-
                      ations which locate the ball within givensets of boxes.
                      5. We have a number of coins, all of the same weight except for one
                      whichis of different weight, and a balance. Determine the weighing pro-
                      cedures which minimize the maximum time required to locate the dis-
                      tinctive coin in the following cases
                         a. The coin is known to be heavier
                         b. It is not known whetherthe coin is heavieror lighter.
                      6. Determine the weighing procedures which minimize the expected
                     time required to locate the coin.
                     7. Consider the more general problem where there are two or more dis-
                     tinctive coins, under various assumptions concerning the properties of the
                     distinctive coins.                                                                               (Cairns)
                     8. We are given m items, not all identical, which must be processed
                     through anumberofmachines,m,ofdifferent type. The order in which the
                     machinesare to be used is not immaterial, since some processes must be
                     90
                                      DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                 carried out before others. Given the times required by the 74 item on the
                 jt4 machine, aij,71 = 1, 2,...,",7 = 1, 2, ..., m, we wish to determine
                 the order in which the items should be fed into the machines so as to
                 minimize the total time required to complete thelot.
                    Consider the case where there are only two stages with ai, = a; and
                 di, = b:;, and where the machines must be used in this order. Let
                 f(@1, 01, 42, 52, ..., nv, bn; t) = time consumed processing the N items
                                                    with required times a;, 0; on the first and
                                                    second machines when the second ma-
                                                    chine is committed for ¢ hours ahead, and
                                                    an optimal scheduling procedure is em-
                                                    ployed.
                 Prove that f satisfies the functional equation
                f(ay, 01, Ge, bg, ..., An, bn; t) = Min[ai + f (ay, by, de, bg, ..., 0,0, ...,
                                              an, ba:By + max (t — ai, 0)],
                 where the (0, 0) combination is in place of (a:, 5i).
                 9, Show that an optimal ordering is determined by the following rule:
                 Item 7 precedes item 7 if min (a:, b;) < min (a;, b;). If there is equality,
                 either ordering is optimal, provided that it is consistent with all the defi-
                 nite preferences. (Johnson)
                   Whatis the solution if either machine can beusedfirst ?
                 10. Let x; be the inactive time in the second machine immediately before
                the ;*8 item is processed on the second machine. Let a:, bi be the times
                required to process the 2item on the first and second machinesrespec-
                tively and assume that the items are arranged in numerical order. Then
                                     n                   u       u—l
                                     Sx, = Max [2 a:— 2 5] (Johnson)
                                    7=1      l<u<n t=1           i= 1
                11. For the three-stage process the corresponding expression for the total
                idle time on the third machine1s
                                                   u—]         v       v—l1
                                Max      [SL a— 20+ L b;— SJ ci] (Johnson)
                            l<susvesn i=l          i=1       1=1      i=1
                12. Consider the following problemarising in the production of many-
                part items,or alternately in the maintenance of a complex system. There
                are N different stages of production involved in turning outthefinal item.
                The probability that the item is processed correctly at the it® stage is i.
                                                                                              91
                                       DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                    Assume that £ machines are available which can be usedto increase the
                 accuracy of any particular stage of the process in the following way.If
                 one machineis addedto the 2*® stage, : becomes i,, if two machines,
                 then #:2, and so on.
                    How should we distribute the machines to maximize the overall accu-
                 racy of the process ? Consider the same problemunderthe followingalter-
                 native assumptions.
                 (a)   At most m: machinesare allowed at the 7” stage
                 (b)   A machine at the 7" stage costs d; dollars and we have at most d
                 dollars to spend.
                 (c)   A machine at the 2'® stage requires /; operators at the z'» point, and
                       at most # menareavailable.
                 13. A mistake found at the z'® point requires a time 4 and a cost c; to
                 rectify. Taking into account laboring costs, machine costs, and the cost of
                 turning out a defective item, say z, how much moneyshould be spent on
                 checking equipment and how shouldit be used ?
                  14, Consider the problem of maximizing the function
                   & gi (xi) under the constraints
                 i=1
                 a.    x; >0
                         n
                 bo     Lx=C
                      i=1
                 C.    %ip, Xi, ,, = O for a set of integers 1, <1, << 13 <<... <dm,
                                                 m<n—l.
                    Consider, in particular the cases
                   ©   xi Xi+1 = 0,             1=1,2,...,.n—1
                 b.    Xi Xi 41 Xi+2 = 0,       7=1,2,...,n—-2
                    Consider the reverse situation, where we have constraints of the form
                 a.    Xin Xin 5 > dy.
                    Discuss the special cases
                 a.    X41>1,
                 Db.   %¢ %i41 X42 > 1.
                 15. A managerof a restaurant has two types of laundry service available
                 for napkins, a quick service which requires q days, and costs c cents per
                 napkin, and a slow service which requires p > g days and costs d cents,
                 d <c, per napkin. Assuming that he knows in advance the numberof
                 92
                                                            DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                          customers he will have on any given day of an N-dayperiod and that
                          he prides himself on providing every customer with a napkin, how many
                          napkins should he purchase and how should he launder them so as to
                          minimize the total cost over the N-day period ? Considerfirst the cases
                          where P=g+1l,andp=gq4+ 2.
                          16. Consider the analogous problem under the assumption that & laun-
                          derings wear out a napkin.
                          17. Consider the above problem under the assumption that numberof
                          customers on each day is a stochastic quantity.
                          18. We have a resource x which maybeutilized in a numberof ways. If
                          y is a parameter specifying a particular use, let R (x, y) be the immediate
                          return, and D (x, y) the cost in resources. Iff(x) is the total return from
                          repeated use of an initial resource x, obtained using an optimalallocation
                          policy, we derive the functional equation
                                                      f(x) = Max [R (x, y) + f(* — D (, 9))).
                                                                        y
                          Assuming that D (x, y) is small compared to x, for all y, show that we
                          obtain the formal approximate equation
                                                                                               R (x, y)
                                                                                                
                                                                     f'   («*)   = Max Dx,
                                                                                                         y) )
                          and give the interpretation of this result.
                          19. Consider the stochastic case. Show that the corresponding functional
                          equation has the form
                                       f(x) = Max [|dR (y, z, x) +f(e— |wad (y, w, x))],
                                                                                                                0
                                                                  0
                                                         y
                          and the approximate equation has the form
                                                                                       [- zdR (y, 2, x)
                                                                                          0
                                                                                       
                                                            f' (*) = Max                   —z                           ,
                                                                               y       | waD(¥, w, x)
                                                                                          0
                          and give the interpretation of the result.
                          20. Consider the application of approximation in policy space to the
                          functional equation
                                          f(x) = Max [g(y) + h(x—y) +flay + 6 (x —y))].
                                                       Osy<sa
                          Wechoose an initial y, (x) and computef, (x). Then determiney, (x) by
                                                                                                                                                         93
                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                                              the                  condition that y, maximize the function g(y) + h(«—y) +
                                                            fo (ay + 6 (x — y)), computef/f, (x) using y, (v), and so on. When are the
                                                              elements of the sequences {Vn (x)} and {fn (x)} continuous in x, and when
                                                              do they converge ? Consider, in particular, the cases where g and h/ are
                                                              both convex, or both concave.
                                                              21. Assume that we have two machines, unimaginatively called I and IT,
                                                              with the following properties. If machine I is used there is a probability 7
                                                              of receiving a gain of one unit; if machine IT is used,there is a probability
                                                              s of receiving a gain of one unit. We shall assume that s is known,but that
                                                              vy is determined only by ana priori probability distribution. The problem
                                                              is to determine a selection policy which maximizes the expected return
                                                             obtained over WN trials, or alternatively the discounted return from an
                                                              unbounded process, discounting the return one stage hence by a factor
                                                             a<l.
                                                                       Assume that the distribution function for 7 after m successes and
                                                             failures on the first machine is given by
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ym (1 — yr)" dF(7)
                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                       AFmin (7) =
                                                                                                                                                                                             [. ym (1 —yr)" dF(1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                             Let fm, n equal the expected return obtained using an optimal policy
                                                             for an unbounded process after the first machine has had m successes
                                                             and m failures. Show that fm 2» satisfies the recurrence relation
                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                              I:                 | VaFm, n (7) [1 =- afm +1, n|
                                                                                                         Tim,
                                                                                                                         »
                                                                                                                                =
                                                                                                                                            Max
                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                 [,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            __
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              m,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             [afm,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          +1],
                                                                                                                                                                              II:                s/(l1—a)
                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                             22. Prove that there is a unique boundedsolution to this equation, which
                                                            may be obtained by successive approximations.
                                                             23. Prove that for each m, n > O there isa unique quantity s (m, ) with
                                                            the property that the sequence {fmn} is determined by the equations
                                                            (a)               fmn =s/l—a),l>s>s (m,n),
                                                                              Fimn = [, vaFmn (7) [1 + afm +1, n|
                                                                                                           +a(l —|dFn,n(7))fnynt1,0<s <s (m,n).
                                                            94
                                                DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                      The sequence s (m, 2) has the following properties
                                         (b)   s(m+ 1,n) >s(m,n) >s(m,n+1),
                     and
                                         (c)   fm+izn >fmin >fmin+t-
                         How can the sequence s (m, ”) be calculated ?
                     24. Prove the correspondingresults for the process allowing only finite
                     numberoftrials.
                     25. Consider the following situation. We have a warehouse with fixed
                     capacity and an initial stock of a certain product which is subject to
                     known seasonal price and cost variations. The problem is to determine
                     the optimal pattern of purchasing (or production), storage andsales.
                         Let B denote the fixed warehouse capacity, and A theinitial stock in
                     the warehouse. Consider a seasonal product bought (or produced) and
                     sold for each of 1 = 1, 2, ..., ” periods. For the 2" period,let
                     (1)                 c;   = cost per unit
                                         pi = selling price per unit
                                         x; = amount bought (or produced)
                                         yi = amountsold
                        The constraints are as follows:
                     (2)                 (a)   BuyingConstraints: The stock on hand at the end of the
                                               7th period cannot exceed the warehouse capacity.
                                         (b) Selling Constraints: The amountsold in the z'® period
                                               cannot exceed the amountavailable at the end of the
                                               (¢ — 1)st period.
                                         (c)   Non-negativity: Amounts purchased or sold in any
                                               period are non-negative.
                        The problem is to determine the policy which maximizes the over-all
                     profit.
                         Show that it may be convertedinto the problem of determining the x;
                     and y; which maximize
                                                                   n
                     (3)                                  P= 2X (pj yi — 6%),
                                                                 j=l
                     subject to the constraints
                     (4)            (a)   A+ » (4%: — vi) <B,                       7—=1,2,...,n,
                                                j=l
                                                        i—1
                                    (b) yi A+ 2 (x; —yy),                            1=1,2,...,%,
                                                        j=l
                                    (c)   xi, ys > O.
                                                                                                                           95
                                                           DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                          26. For fixed B, define
                                                             fn(A) = Max P, n=1,2,....
                          Show that f, (A) = ~, A, and that
                          (1)            fn (A) = Max                 [pi ¥1—¢1%1 +fn-1(A + %1—yx)],
                                                           My YVi
                          for n > 2, where the maximum is over the region
                          (2)                           (a)      OSy<cA
                                                        (b)      Xy—¥,<B—A,                                   x, > 0.
                          27. Prove that the function fy (v) is linear in v, namely
                                             fn (v) = Kw (fi, fe, «. +, PN, C1, C2, «+, ON) +
                                                             In (fi, pe, sey Pn, C1, C2, «.e, CN) v,
                         and thus that the optimal policyis independentof v.
                                                                                                                                     (Dreyfus)
                          28. Consider the following idealized transportation system
                                                   k=1                  k=2                 k= 3                   k=N
                                              Ty       O-—~0                                    0                       0
                                                                       JA                                                  \
                                             Sz         0 f™0                                   0                       0 co
                             At each stage we have two terminals JT, and Sx. From either T, or Sx
                         we can ship materials to Tx +41 or Sx 41.
                             The maximum amounts we can ship alongtheseroutesarethefollowing
                                                  a.   LeTusi = Re, «+1,                                   Iy—>fF = Ry
                                                  b. TeSe41 = Rr, e+1                                      Svn>F = Syn
                                                  C.   Se—>Set1 = Se, 41
                                                  d. Sy>Te+1 = Sk, e41
                             Starting with initial quantitites x at T, and y at Sx, denote by Fx (x, y)
                         the quantity arriving at F using an optimal shipping policy. Show that
                                                 Fy (x, y) = Min (x, Rv) + Min (y, Sy),
                                                 Fy (x, vy) = Max Fx +1 (2; + We, 22 + W,),
                         96
                                    DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                where the maximum1s taken over the region
                                    2, + 2%2< %,         W+We<Y,
                               0< 2,< Re, e41,            O<2.<Re, 41,
                               0< W,< Sk, e414,           O<we<Sx, r+
                29. Formulate the corresponding problem for the case where the ter-
                minals have maximum capacities.
                30. Consider the stochastic case where the capacities are random vari-
                ables with known distribution functions. Obtain a recurrencerelation for
                the maximum expected quantity arriving at F, under various assump-
                tions concerning the information pattern.
                31. Considerthe following transportation problem. We aregivenanumber
                of ‘“‘sources’’, S,, S,, ..., Sm, and a numberof “sinks” or “‘terminals’’,
                T,, T2, ..., Ln. Each source S; has a quantity x; of resources which must
                be transported to various terminals in such a way that the total quantity
                arriving at T; fulfills an a priori demand y;. It is assumed that 2' x; =
                                                                                      u
                y;. Given the distances, dij, between the sources and the terminals, and
                j
                assuming that the cost of shipping a unit quantity of resources between
                S; and T; is equal to di;, we wish to determine the routing which mini-
                mizes the total cost of supplying the demands.
                  Show that the problem above is equivalent to minimizing the sum
                                              C= 2 dij Xij
                                                    t, 9
                subject to the constraints
                        DL Xig = Xi, LD Xig = Vj, Xig > O.  (Hitchcock-Koopmans)
                        j            i
                32. Write, for fixed y,, yo, ..., yn;
                                       Min C =fw (%1, Xe, ..., Xm).
                                         tj
                Show that
                    ii (1, Xa, vee, xm) = din X41 + don Xe + eae + dun XM,
                                                   M
                    In (4, Xe, eeey %M) — ete a dix Xi4 + fn -1 (x; — *4, Xo — X%o1)
                                             ay  1=1
                                               1+, XM —%XMj)|
               where the minimumIs over the region
                                        M
                                       At =v, OStaSM.
                                      i=1
                                                                                           97
                                     DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                                                       M         iV
                 33. Show that as a consequence of the relation » x; = 2 yj, we may
                                                                      i=1       j=l
                 always reduce the dimension of the problem by one, by writing
                               In (%1, Xo, see, xm) = fy (%1, Xo, sae, Xm -—1).
                 34. Consider the stochastic case where the d;; represent random variables
                 with given distributions.
                 35. Assuming that the cost of transportation from an 7-port to a 7-portis
                 quadratically nonlinear, dij xij + eij ij, ey > O, show that there is now
                 a unique minimizing schedule. (Prager)
                 36. Consider a similar multi-stage process where resourcesat (A:, Bi, Ci)
                must be transported to (4i+,, Bi+1,Ci+,) and so on, until reaching
                 assigned destinations, 7,, T;, T3, as indicated below
                                        A,       A,           An       Ty
                                        B, NeB,         ...   By       T,
                                        C,     \C,            Cy       Ts;
                37. Consider the problem of determining the minimum of
                                                          N
                                               L(x)= 2 cx,
                                                        i=1
                subject to the constraints
                                        N
                                       aS  aij xj<.bi,1 = 1,2,..., M,
                                      j=1
                                                     xi > O,
                where we assumethat ai; > 0.
                   Denote Min L (x) byfw (b;, bs, ..., Oa). Show that
                 In (b,, bs, wey bar) = Min [Cn XN + fy - 1] (b, — AIN XN, b, — den Xn, eee,
                                          ty
                                                                bu — aun xN)],
                where xy is constrained by the relations
                                          xn > 0, xy < Min (b:/ain).
                98
                                                DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                     38. Suppose that we have an empty five-gallon jug, /,, an empty two-
                     gallon jug, J,, and unlimited supplies of usquebaugh and water. The
                     allowable operations are
                                         A, Fill J,
                                         A, Empty /, of any contents
                                         A, Fill J,
                                         A, Empty /, of any contents
                                         A, Pour contents of J, into J,, as much as allowable
                                         A, Pour contents of /, into /,, as much as allowable.
                        After any finite numberof operations, the state of the system may be
                     described as follows:
                                         1.     There are 7 = 0,1, 2 gallons of liquid in /,, witha
                                               ratio 7: (1 — 7) of usquebaugh to water.
                                         2.    There are 7 = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4,5 gallons in J, with a
                                                ratio s: (1 — s) of usquebaugh to water.
                        Starting in someinitial state (7,7; 7, s), let f(2,7; 7, s) denote the mi-
                     nimum numberof operations required to attain a given state, say a fifty-
                     fifty mixture of water and usquebaughin />..
                        Show that
                                                   f(t,7;7,s) =1+ Min Axf.
                                                                             1<k<6
                        Is f (2,7; 7, s) finite for all rational 7, with 7 = 0, and all rational s,
                     with 2 = 0? If not, what final combinations of water and usquebaugh
                     can be attained in /, in a finite numberof operations?
                     39. Consider the following problem: At each stage of sequence of actions
                    we are allowed our choice of one of two actions. Thefirst has associated a
                    probability #, of gaining one unit, a probability p, of gaining two units,
                    and a probability p, of terminating the process. The second has a similar
                    set of probabilities £,’, p2’, £;’. What sequence of choices maximizes the
                    probability of attaining at least               units before the process is terminated ?
                        Let u (n) be the maximum probability. Then
                                            M        aDseee
                                                                                               Joven
                                 ¥(m) =        Max    ot (nm—1) +py u(n—2)
                                 u(n) = 1,                            n<0.
                    40. Prove that if
                                                                   R
                                        u(n) = Max                 » asu(n—j)| ,n>k,
                                                  1<i< kK        Lj=1
                                        u(l) >0,l=0,1,2,...,R—1,
                                                                                                                        99
                                              DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                    and if
                                       (a)  aizy > 0
                                                                                     R
                                       (b) there is one equation, 7? = 2 ax; 7r® —4 whose largest
                                                                                   j=l
                                            positive root is greater than the corresponding roots of
                                            the other equations of this type;
                                       (c)   for this index k, ax, 4 0,
                    under these circumstances, the solution of (1) is given by
                                                                  R
                                                     u(n) = 2» ayyu(n—y)
                                                                j=1
                    for n sufficiently large.
                       What happensif at least two characteristic equations have the same
                    maximum root?
                    41. Consider the equation
                                          u(n) = Max              |S ay (n—+|
                                                    1<i<sm         Lj=1
                                          R
                    where aij > 0, 2» ay = 1,2: >0,u(l) >0,l=0,1,2,...,R—1.
                                        j=1
                                             R
                    Let c = Max gi/ 2 jai; be attained for the single value
                                   i      j=1
                    1 = s. If as, > 0, the solution is given by
                                                                R
                                                    u(n) = » asyu(n—J)+ gs
                                                              j=1
                    for n > mo where 1, depends upontheinitial conditions and coefficients.
                    42. Is the result true if as, = 0? Construct a counter-example.
                    43. Given a finite set {A;} of non-negative square matrices, let Cy be the
                    matrix B, B, ... By, where each B; is an A;, which possesses the charac-
                    teristic root of largest absolute value. Let ry be this root. Prove that wu
                    =lim ry'/%exist. Let My denote the smallest majorant of the products
                       WV —> 00
                    Py = B,B,... Bn}1.e., the 47'" element in My is greater than or equal
                    the 7't element in any Py. Let my be the characteristic root of My of
                    largest absolute value. Prove that A = lim M,"/n exists as N > oo.
                                                                         N— 00
                    44, Prove or disprove that uw = A.
                    100
                                                         DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                         45. Consider the following problem: Weare given initially x dollars and
                         a quantity y of a serum, together with the prerogative of purchasing
                         additional amounts of the serum at specified times ¢#; < 4, < .... At the
                         kt» purchasing opportunity,¢x, a quantity cxzz of serum may be purchased
                         for z dollars, where cx is a monotone-increasing function of k. Given the
                         probability that an epidemic occurs between ¢; and ty +,, and the condi-
                         tion that if an epidemic occurs we may only use the amount of serum on
                         hand, the problem is to determine the purchasing policy that maximizes
                         the over-all probability of successfully combating an epidemic, given the
                         probability of success with a quantity w of serum available.
                             The condition cz > cx ~— , is imposed to indicate the cheaper cost of
                         serum at a later date because of technological improvement. Let
                                            pbx = probability that the epidemic occurs between ¢, and
                                                      tx +,, assuming that it has not occurred previously,
                                       g (w) = probability of combating the epidemic successfully with
                                                      a quantity w of serum,
                                  fx (x, y) = over-all probability of success using an optimal pur-
                                                      chasing policy from ¢t, on, given x dollars and a quantity
                                                      y of serum on hand.
                         Show that fx (x, y) satisfies the functional equation
                        fi (%,y) =            Max [peg (y + cuz) + (1 — px)fers (¥—2, ¥ + Ce 2)]
                                           O<z<2
                         46. Show thatif m (w) is convex for all values of w which occur, the opti-
                         mal policy consists of purchasing no serum at ¢,, tg, ..., #e — , and then
                         using all available money at ¢; where & is chosen so as to maximize
                                             [1—(1—p)*~*) p(y) +L —2)F (y+ Cee),
                         if py = p. Find the corresponding expression for general px.
                         47, Let
                                                                                   1            N
                                                       Fy(f) = Min | f— Z axge | Rdx.
                                                                         {a,j}    4°          k=1
                         Show that
                                                             Fy(f) = Min Fy -1(f—aw»)
                                                                                an
                         48. Show that if we let
                                                 M(X1, Xq, »-+, XN) = the minimum of N quantities,
                         X14, Xq, ..., Xn, we have the functional equation
                                                                                                                                                 101
                                          DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                   mM (mM (X1, Xa, «++, XN — 1), XN) = M (Xy, Xe, -- XN),
                  and similarly for M (x,, %2, ..., xv), the maximum of N quantities.
                  49. Show that
                  Max[(1 —x,) e71-+ (1 — xq) e™! +72 +... + (1 — xy) et +22 +--+ + 7y] = ey,
                   {z;
                  where ¢; = ¢,enw = EN -1,
                  50. Set
                                                                         N
                                                                                           Oe),
                                                                                     [av
                                                                            emao"
                                                                        S
                                                            et
                                                   [Je
                                             Min
                                          =
                                      &)
                                   (b,
                               fv
                                              a;                       ~=1
                  Show that
                                                  -k
                                           .     ——(ay-d)?                  kb + an
                          fo (6, 8)      Min oF +                 fe    (Gayata),
                                   f(b, k) = Min | [e-k (x - 0)" = (2 - a") dV (x).
                                                  a
                  51. Obtain recurrencerelations for the problem of determining the mini-
                  mum and maximum of
                  (a)  Qn = (ax,)? + (4%, + ax)? +... (x4, + me +... + xN-14+ aky)?,
                  subject to x? + 7,2 + ... + xy? = 1,
                  (b) Qn = xy? + (x, + axe)? +... (xy + ax, + a?x, +... + aN-1 xy)?,
                  subject to 7? + 7,2 + ... + xy? = 1,
                  (c)  Qn = xy? + (x, + axq)? + (x, + ax, -+(a + 0D) xg)? +...
                       (x, + ax, + (a + b) x, +... (a + (N — 2) b) xy)?,
                  subject to x2 + 7,2 +... + xy? = 1.
                  52. Suppose that a piece of candy is to be shared by two children. Show
                  that an optimal procedure is to let one child divide the candy, and the
                  other choose the piece he wants. Show that this leads to the equation
                                          y= Max Min (y, x —y) = 2/2,
                                                Osy<s2z
                  for the share of the first child.
                  102
                                                        DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                        53. What is the corresponding procedure for N children? (Steinhaus)
                        54. Suppose that we have a vehicle which can carry enough gasoline to
                        go a distance of d miles. In order to traverse a distance of 2d miles over
                        barren territory, it is necessary to establish intermediate caches of gaso-
                        line. How should these be located so as to minimize the total expenditure
                        of gasoline required to traverse this distance, and whatis the total dis-
                         tance travelled by the vehicle before it reaches its destination ?
                            (N. J. Fine, ‘“‘The Jeep Problem,’’ Amer. Math. Monthly, Vol. LIV, Jan.
                         1947)
                        55. Consider the following morerealistic versions:
                                  Use of more than one vehicle
                                 Transportation of an additional cargo
                                  Use of some fixed caches, established in advance
                                  Delivery to more than one destination
                              Wop
                                  Establishment of a rate of delivery
                                  Minimization of total cost, including cost of gasoline,
                              Ho
                                  cost of purchasing vehicles, cost of establishing caches.
                            g, Arbitrary distance x > 2d.                                                                          (Helmer)
                         56. Prove that, in general, the problem of determining
                                                   NV                                       N                   N
                            Max Min                dS    Fx (xx, 2) , where XY xp <x, XY ye <y, Xr, Ve = O
                              {x,}    {yy}       Lk=1                                     k=]                k=l
                         cannot be reduced to a recurrencerelation of the form
                                fi (%, y) = Max Min [Fw (an, yx) + fv -1(% — xn, ¥ — Yw)]-
                                                      TN;       YN
                         57. Suppose that the requirements of a system at time ” are 7n. Let xn be
                         the actual level, and let it be required to have %n > 7» for all n.
                             Furthermore, the restriction on the level at any time is
                                                    Xn +4— Xn <A(Xn—4Xn- 1),                            NSN,
                         an “expansion-limitation”’.
                         We wish to chose the x; so as to minimize
                                                                                    N
                                                                 ] (fx}) = E (en — 7).
                                                                                 n=]
                         Show that the x; are given by
                                                x1 = YP
                                                X_—x, = Min [A q,, 4 q2] = Min [A x, 2]
                                                Ng — X= Min [A? ¢1, A @2, M3] = Min [A (%2 — %1), Ps]
                                                <n
                                                     —
                                                          Xn
                                                              —
                                                                  1
                                                                    =
                                                                         Min
                                                                                [A
                                                                                      -1q,,
                                                                                                 A"
                                                                                                      -2
                                                                                                          qs,
                                                                                                                 12+,
                                                                                                                        Qn}
                                                                                                                               =
                                                                         Min
                                                                                [A
                                                                                     (Xn
                                                                                          -
                                                                                             1
                                                                                                    en
                                                                                                            2),
                                                                                                                 Dn],
                                                                                                                                             103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                                                                                      where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15 —Vke-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pr = Max                                                                                        jp (Shepherd).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i                                                      ZS                         ji-k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i=k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                      58. Determine the maximum of 2 a; x; subject to the constraints
                                                                                                                 N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i=1
                                                                                                            Sx? = 1,0 %,< %,.<...< xy, where the a; are non-negative.
                                                                                                      ~=1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   y
                                                                                                      59. Consider the problem of determining the maximum of J/T (x; — a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~=1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                     subject to the restrictions 0<.*%,;< 0, where } >a,and 2 xi = c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i=1
                                                                                                      Show that to obtain a functional equation we must consider also the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                     problem of determining the minimum of // (xi — a), and obtain the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i=]
                                                                                                     functional equations governing the problem.
                                                                                                                     Show that this problem does not arise if we consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IT                               |      xXi—a | .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i=1
                                                                                                     60. Assume that we are a contestant on a quiz program where we have
                                                                                                    an opportunity to win a substantial amount of money provided that we
                                                                                                    answer a series of questionscorrectly.
                                                                                                                    Let rx be the amount of money obtainedif the At» question 1s answered
                                                                                                    correctly, and let 4, be the a priori probability that we can answer the
                                                                                                    kt» question where k = 1, 2, ..., N. Let g(x) be the utility function
                                                                                                   measuring the value to us of winning an amount x.
                                                                                                                    Assumethat we have a choice at the end of each question of attempting
                                                                                                    to answer the next question, or of stopping with the amountalready won.
                                                                                                    Determine the optimal policies to pursue under the following conditions:
                                                                                                                    a. Any wrong answer terminates the process with a total return of
                                                                                                                                         zero.
                                                                                                                    b. A total of two wrong answersis allowed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                k
                                                                                                                   c.                    Havinganswered #, questions correctly, we must win at least 2’ 7x,
                                                                                                                                         no matter what happens subsequently.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ka
                                                                                                                   d. Weare competing with other contestants. The contestant obtaining
                                                                                                                                         the largest total has an opportunity to answera “jackpot question”’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                        worth much more than 2 rz.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      =1
                                                                                                    104
                                                     DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                           e.   At each stage of the process, we have a choice of a hard question or
                                an easy question with the proviso that a miss on an easy question
                                terminates the process with a return of zero, and a miss on a hard
                                question terminates the process with a total return of one-half the
                                amount wonto date.
                       61. Let the quantities bi, aij; be stochastic variables, subject to known
                       distributions. Obtain a recurrence relation for the sequence
                                                                 {fv (t, C1, Co, «.., Cm)}
                       defined by the equation
                                                                                                      N
                                            Tw (t, C1, Ca, «.-, Cm) = Min Exp E m bi n| ,
                                                                                   j               i=1
                       where the x; satisfy constraints of the form
                           a xi > 0,
                                    N
                           b.      & ayxj<c,t=1,2,...,m,
                                 j=1
                       and for the sequence
                                                                                                  N
                                             EN (Cy, Ce, ++, Cm) = Min Exp                       Edx.
                                                                                               t=1
                                                                                  i
                       In both cases, Exp represents the expected value with respect to the
                       random elements.
                       62. Consider the Selberg form
                                                                            n=<=N ki[{n
                       where x, = 1 and the other x, are as yet undetermined. The notation
                             Xx means that the sum is to be taken overall integers k which divide
                       k[n
                       n, e.g. S Xe =X, + %, + %, + x. With the introduction of suitable
                                  k| 6
                                    |
                       state variables, determine recurrence relations for Min Qw(x).
                                                                                                         q;
                       63. The problem of determining the minimum and maximum charac-
                       teristic roots of the Jacobi matrix
                                                                                                                                    105
                                                                                    DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                                                                        a,        ob,
                                                                                        by        a,        dy
                                                  J=                                              b,        az         by                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                       bn - 2             an -—-1             bn -1
                                                                                                                                          bvn-—1              an
                                     wherethe dots signify that all the other elements are zero, is equivalent
                                     to determiningtheminimum and maximum values of the quadratic form,
                                                                                                         N                               N—-1
                                                                              On (x) = LMaxPFtl® L Oi xi x41,
                                                                                                     i=]                                 i=1
                                                                            N
                                    onthe sphere                            » x? =
                                                                          i=1
                                          Consider the two sequences
                                                                                       Jn (c) = Max [Qn (x) + 2cxy},
                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                        gy (c) = Min [Qw (x) + 2cxw],
                                                                                                                   S
                                    where S represents the N-dimensional sphere. Show that recurrence
                                    relations may be obtained, connecting fy (c) with fy —1(c), and gv (c)
                                    with gw — 1 (c).
                                    64. Obtain analogousresults for the quadratic form
                                                                                  N                              N—1                                             N—2
                                                        On (x) = 2 ay xi? + 2 » b; xi: Xi41 + 2 a Ci Xi xi+2.
                                                                              7=1                                 a =1                                            i=1
                                    65. Let A = (ai;) be a positive definite symmetric matrix. Show that the
                                    problem of solving the system of linear equations
                                                                                            N
                                                                                          & ij Xj = i,t = 1, 2, ...,N,
                                                                                       p= 1
                                    is equivalent to determining the absolute minimum of the form
                                                                                                               N                                          N
                                                                                  On (x) =                    LD        aij xi xj —2 LY 4 xi.
                                                                                                         j=l                                         i=1
                                    106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                                                                                                                                66. Define this minimum to be fw (¢;, cz, ..., ¢v), and obtain a recur-
                                                                                                                                               rence relation connectingfw andfy - 1.
                                                                                                                                                                      Show thatfw is a quadratic form in the variables c;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jn (Cy, Co, «.-, CW) =                                                                                                                                                                                                     XY                                  OW); ci cz,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ij=1
                                                                                                                                                and show howtherecurrence relation connecting fy and fy -1 may be
                                                                                                                                                                      “ye                                                                                                                                   .                                                                                                                                                                                        .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,               (N)
                                                                                                                                               utilized to obtain recurrencerelations for the sequences (8, |
                                                                                                                                                 67. A television broadcasting company wishesto lease video links so that
                                                                                                                                                certain of its stations may be formed into a connected network. Video
                                                                                                                                               links exist between all pairs of stations, and the costs, in general different,
                                                                                                                                               of links between the various pairs of stations are known. Show that to
                                                                                                                                                construct a network at minimal cost, we choose amongthe links not yet
                                                                                                                                               included in the network the lowest price link which does not form any
                                                                                                                                               loop with the links already chosen.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (Kalaba)
                                                                                                                                                68. Consider the problem of minimizing 2 q; (x;) over all »—tuples of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7=1                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                               non-negative integers x = (x1, %2,...,%n)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         which satisfy »' x; = m,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  j=1
                                                                                                                                                where 9, @2, -.-, Yn are convex functions for x; > 0. Let J = {1, 2,...,
                                                                                                                                                 n} and for any admissible set, {x,, x2, ..., xn}, let S + (x) denote theset of
                                                                                                                                                indices 7 e J for which x; > 0. Show that a necessary and sufficient con-
                                                                                                                                                 dition that an admissible set of x; provide the minimumis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            main [yj (xj +1) — yj (%s)] L max [py(xs) — gy (x -1)],
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  jel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       je S*(z)
                                                                                                                                                andobtain the corresponding condition when the x; are restricted merely
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                to be non-negative and satisfy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 x; =m. (Gross)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  j=l
                                                                                                                                                 69. Consider a rectangular matrix A = (a;;). It is desired to start at the
                                                                                                                                                 (1, 1) position and proceed to the (m, n) position movingonestep to the
                                                                                                                                                 right or one step down each move, in such a way as to minimize the sum
                                                                                                                                                of the ai; encountered. Show how to determine optimal paths. (Dreyfus)
                                                                                                                                                 70. Suppose that we have a toaster capable of toasting twoslices of bread
                                                                                                                                                simultaneously, each on one side. What toasting procedure minimizes the
                                                                                                                                                time required to toast three slices of bread, each on twosides?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (J. E. Littlewood)
                                                                                                                                                 Solve the generalized problem requiring the processing of N k-sided items
                                                                                                                                                by means of M machines which can each process R items on s sides
                                                                                                                                                simultaneously.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      107
                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                                              71. Consider a 3-terminal communication system,
                                                                                                                                                                                T9
                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 wa
                                                                                                                  T,                                                                                                                                                                                           T 3/
                                                            with message loads at each of the terminals for the other terminals.
                                                             Let 74; denote the maximum number of messages that can be sent
                                                            from T; to J; in unit time, and consider the twocases, first, where there
                                                            is 0 interference between signals going from T; to T; and those going
                                                            in the reverse direction from 7; to T;, and, second, where the total
                                                            number messages in both directions cannot exceed 7ij.
                                                                      Let xi, 2,7 = 1, 2, 3,2 + 7, denote the quantity of messages at T;
                                                            with ultimate destination T;, and assume that a unit time is consumed
                                                            transmitting a message from any T; to any Tj. Denoting byfn (x1) the
                                                            maximum quantity of messages that can be delivered in 7 time units,
                                                            derive a recurrence relation for the sequence {fn (x4) }.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (Juncosa-Kalaba)
                                                            72, A newspaper delivers papers to a number of newsstands. Assuming
                                                            that the distribution of sales at each of these stands is known, and
                                                            assuming that a certain quantity of unsold papers may be returned,
                                                            suitably discounted, how many papers should be published, and how
                                                            should they be distributed ?
                                                            73. Consider the problem of minimizing a sum
                                                                                        Fy(%1, %2, «.., ¥N) = 81 (%1) + ge (x2) +... + Bw (xy),
                                                            where each g; is a convex function, and the variables are subject to the
                                                            constraints @<[%*%,;< *%2<...<xvn<b. Define
                                                                                                           In (a, 6) = Tap ey xe, ...,%n), for N= 1,2,...,
                                                                                                                                                              {x,
                                                           and — co <a <b < oo. Show that
                                                                                                      fy +i1(a,x) =                                                    Min [gy +1 (y) + fy (@, x) }.
                                                                                                                                                                asy<2
                                                            108
                                                               DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                            74. Let g(x) be continuous and convex for x >d. Define
                                                                g(r,s)=               Min g(x), d<r<s.
                                                                                  r<szr<s
                           Show that for d<(a<.b<c, we may write
                                                             g (a, ¢c) = § (a, b) + g (6, c) — g (0, b).
                            In addition, show that g(a, x), as a function of x, 1s continuous and
                           convex for x >a.                                                                                                      (Karush)
                           75. Prove that under the above hypotheses that
                                                                                                                                                          <oo.
                                                                                                                                                 Se
                                                                                                                                Kab
                                                                                                                      —00
                                                                                                             6),
                                                                                                        (8,
                                                                                                    fv
                                                                                               —
                                                                                          ¢)
                                                                                 (0,
                                                                             fv
                                                                          +
                                                                     6)
                                                                (a,
                                                       fn
                                                  =
                                              ¢)
                                           (4,
                                     fn
                                  _
                                                                                                                                                 (Karush)
                            76. Let the gi (y) be convex functions for — co < y < oo which are
                           bounded from below. Then fy (a, b) may be written in the form
                                                               Jn (a,6)=un (4) +ow(6), 4 < 6,
                           where un (x) and vn (x) are, respectively, increasing and decreasing
                           convex functions for — oo < % < oo.                                                                                   (Karush)
                            77. Let
                                                                                                                             M
                                       fi (40, 41, 42, ...,@n) = Min                              Max |ap— 2 Xecr—xl.
                                                                                          c,   OSLSN                         k= 0
                           Show that
                                 fn (ao, 41, G2, ..., 4v) = Min Max [] ao — Xo Col,fy —1 (@1 — *1 Co,
                                                                                   Co
                                                                                a2 — x2 Co, wee) ].
                           78. Derive a similar expression for
                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                x),
                                                                                                                                             —
                                                                                                                                  Xecr
                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                             (ar—
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                          Min
                                                                                     =
                                                              @2,...,4n)
                                                        41,
                                                 (ao,
                                           fn
                                                                                            C;     L=0                    k=0
                           and obtain thereby recurrence relations for the coefficients in
                                                                                                          N (N)
                                                                Jn (ao, 41, ...,4n) = 2 Qrs Ar As.
                                                                                                        s= 0
                            79. A sleuth investigating a murder has N witnesses, one of whom is
                           the murderer, of different degrees of reliability. Let #; be the probability
                           that the 2‘” witnesstells the truth at any particular time to any particular
                           question. The detective interviews the witnesses in some order, asks
                           the first witness a question, and then each succeeding witness a question,
                                                                                                                                                                109
                                                                                                                            
                                          DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                  which maybe a direct question or a question concerning the truth of the
                  testimony of preceding witnesses. Supposing that he is allowed one
                  question at a time, and that the time required for the 2‘ witness to
                  answer a questionis ¢;, in what order should the witnessesbe interrogated,
                  and what questions should be asked to maximize the probability of
                  determining the murderer in a fixed time T?
                  80. Consider the problem of minimizing the function
                              Fy (%1, %2, «.-, ¥N) = 1 (%1) + Me (%2) + ... + yn (xn)
                  over all values of the x; subject to
                                 (a)  x1 > 0
                                 (b) ma Sn,
                                      x1 ++ X_ 2 fe,
                                      Xi tweet... +4XnN SIN.
                     Define the sequence
                                                                  N
                                                fi (2) = Min 2 qi (xi) ,
                                                              x  i=k
                  over the region determined by
                                 (a)   x > 0
                                 (b) x%% > re — 2,
                                     Ke + Xe +1 > re 41 — 2,
                                      Xe t+ Xe +r + we + %N > YN — 2,
                  for z>0, k= 1, 2,..., N. Show that
                                      fr (2) = Minpx (Xe) + fe +1 (7x) ],
                  fork = 1, 2,..., N —1, and hence that Min Fy (*1, x2, ..., xw) = fi (0).
                                                                        x
                  81. Show that the above problem with the additional restriction that
                  Xt +1— %i< di +1 may be reduced to the problem of determining the
                  sequence {fi (z, c)} as defined by
                                fe (2, ¢) = Min [px (%x) + fa +1 (2 + ¥x, Xx) ].
                                               R
                                                   (Management Science, Vol. 3 (1956), p. 111-113).
                  110
                                               DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                         82. Consider similarly the restriction x; ~-1< Ax.
                         83. Determine the structure of the optimal policy in the case where
                         the gx (x) are linear functions of x, mx (x) = 7 x, and we assume
                                        &
                                          Vroe1 > Vk
                                        oO
                                          Ver+1 Vr
                                          the 7; steadily increase, then decrease.
                                          the 7; steadily decrease, then increase.
                                        ao
                                                                                   (Antosiewicz-Hoffman)
                         84. Given a continuous convex function, f(x), and two values, one
                         positive, f(x1) > 0, and one negative, f(x2) <0, x1 < x2, we wish to
                         determine the position of the zero of the function in |%1, x2]. The problem
                         is to minimize the maximumlength ofinterval in which we can guarantee
                         that the zero lies after ” evaluations of f(x), where the evaluationsare
                         performed sequentially.
                           Define Rn (s, v) to be the minimum length of interval on which we
                         can guarantee locating the zero in /0, 1] of any convex function f, given
                         that f(0) = 1, f(1) = —+v, that we know that the root is between S
                         and 1, and that we have 7 evaluations to perform. Show that
                                                                      ]
                                                                ==—--—-—3
                                                         (x,y)
                                                     Ro
                                                                   I+y
                                                                                             0)
                                                                              32S
                                                                                       
                                                                         Rn
                                                                       x
                                                             Max
                                                                                           Uv
                                                                                       —
                                                                                    XV
                                                                   —s)
                                                                y(t
                                                       Q<we<
                                                                 Ts
                                                         aS
                                               Max
                                     Min
                                =
                         (s,y)
                     Rn
                                                                                                   ,
                                                                                          ¥
                                            1
                                  ,
                                 Ssrsp7,                   Max       (1 —x) Rn a(-* —_——— 2)
                                                                                                            |
                                                                                                          ov}
                                                                                                 Il—v
                                                                                       1--x
                                                     1o<e<1—r(l~y)
                                                                                           (Gross-Johnson)
                         85. A man is standing on a queue waiting for service, with N people
                         ahead of him. He knowsthe utility of waiting out the queue, 7, and the
                         probability # that a person will be served in unit time. On the other
                         hand, he incurs a cost of c for every unit of time spent waiting. The
                         problem is to determine his waiting policy if he wishes to maximize
                         his expected return.
                            Let fy denote the expected return obtained employing an optimal
                         waiting policy when there are N people ahead. Show that
                                         fy = Max [—c + pfw -1 + (1 — A)Jn,9],
                                                                                                          11]
                                                                      DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                              N =1,2,..., with fo = 7. Hence show that
                                                                                                                                         |
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                               —
                                                                                                         1
                                                                                               [iv
                                                                                   Max
                                                                             =
                                                                      fy
                              and thus de'ermine the optimal policy.                                                                                                   (Haight)
                              86. Consiler the same problem under the assumption that he can wait
                              at most a time 7.                                                                                                                        (Haight)
                              87, What policy does he pursue if he knows that a probability # exists,
                              bu: does not know its precise value ?                                                                                                    (Haight)
                               88. Consider a forestry firm in which westart with a fixed capital and
                              a certain presence of timber. We assumethat
                                    1. There is a fixed initial amount of cash available, and no revenue
                                          other than proceeds from selling timber, and from interest on cash
                                         on hand. No borrowing is allowed, and all current expenses must
                                          be covered by cash and sales.
                                   2. Trees can be grown only from seed; it is impossible to buy young
                                         trees from outside the “‘economy.”’
                                   3. The annual increment of ‘“‘timber’’ depends on the age of the tree
                                         (growth rates need not be monotonic).
                                   4. The cost of ‘“‘carrying’’ a growing tree for one year depends on the
                                         age of the tree.
                                   5. The selling value of a tree depends only on its timber content,
                                         1.e. its age.
                                   6. The aim of the process is to maximize the money available after
                                         a fixed number of years.
                                   Four activities may be engaged in, lending, planting, carrying, and
                              felling.
                                    1.   Money can be lent for a year at interest rate 7.
                                   2. Money can be used to plant trees.
                                   3. Money and trees can be used to provide older trees.
                                   4. Trees of a given age can be cut down to provide money.
                                   Over a given time period how does one proceed so as to maximize
                              the total assets, capital plus timber?
                                   (Morton, Dynamic Programming, Proceedingof an International Conference
                              on Input-Output Analysis, J. Wiley and Sons, 1956).
                              89. Consider a multi-componentelectronic system whosereliability may
                              be taken to be the productof the reliabilities of the individual components.
                               112
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                          DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                            —t}+t+:::                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ++
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                      |                                                  2                                                                                                                                                      N-|
                                                                                   To improvethereliability of a particular stage, we can put a number
                                                                         of units in parallel. Let px (xx) be the reliability of the k¢” stage when
                                                                         Xx units are put in parallel at the kt” stage, and let gx (xx) be the cost
                                                                         of inserting x, units in parallel.
                                                                                   The problem is to maximize the total reliability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                     Py (x) = m px (xe),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            k=1
                                                                        subject to the restrictions
                                                                                                                          a.           xe = 1,2,3,...,
                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                          b. & ge (Xn) <e.
                                                                                                                                k=1
                                                                                  If fw (c) = Max Py(x), show that
                                                                                                                        fv (c) = Max [Pw (x)fw 1 (c —en (x) ) J,
                                                                        where the maximum is over
                                                                                                                         a. x = 1,2,...,
                                                                                                                         b. gn (x) <<.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (Nadel)
                                                                        90, Assume that there are two “‘costs,’’ one in terms of actual money,
                                                                        and the other in terms of weight.
                                                                        91. Discuss the connections between the following problems:
                                                                                                                                                                                   N                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                         a. Maximize [7 px (xx), subject to 2 gx (xe) < 1,
                                                                                                                                                                              k=1                                                                                                 =1
                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                          & hy (xx) < C2, and xk = 1, 2, corse
                                                                                                                                    k=1
                                                                                                                                                                                  N                                                                    N                                                                  N
                                                                                                                        b. Maximize IT px (xx) —Ai XY gx (xx) —Ae X hy (xx),
                                                                                                                                                                              k=1                                                                k=1                                                             k=1
                                                                                                                                     subject to x, = 1,2,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ’    e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              113
                                                                               DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                                                                                              N                                    v
                                                             c.      Maximize JT px (xx) — Ai 2 ge (xx), subject to
                                                                                          k=1                                   k=1
                                                                       N
                                                                       » hy (xn) < €2, and Xk = 1, 2, cee
                                                                    k=1
                                                                                            N                                    NV
                                                             d. Minimize »' gx (xx) + As XY he (xz), subject to
                                                                                         k= 1                                 k= 1
                                                                       y
                                                                      IT px (xx) Vi, Xk = 1, 2, se ey 8
                                                                    k=1
                                  92. Obtain the corresponding functional equations, and discuss the
                                  question of most convenient computation.
                                  93. The requirement for a machine of a certain type as a function of
                                  time is known. It is desired to institute a procurement policy to meet
                                  this demand at minimum cost, given the following information.
                                        1.     Procurement of new machines cost ~ dollars per machine.
                                        2. Maintenance of a machine costs m dollars per time period.
                                        3. Cost of upkeep and repair per period is a known function of the
                                              number of machines on hand and the number required.
                                        Show that the corresponding functional equation is
                                      fv(x) =                    Min            [Pa + M(a +x) + Lila +x) +fy -1(e +a)].
                                                           yA+rren
                                  where 21; can assume only the values 0,1, 2,....
                                       Obtain the solution under the assumption that each function Ly (x)
                                  has the form
                                                                Le (x) §¢
                                                                                                                              iii
                                                                                                                                                                          -@
                                                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                4                                        @
                                                                                   rk
                                  and, as a special case, is parabolic, z.e. a quadratic in x.
                                  94, Consider the problem for the case where two distinct types of
                                  machines are being procured, with joint maintenance facilities, but
                                  independent demand.
                                  114
                     DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING PROCESSES
                Bibliography and Comments for Chapter III
           § 1. The basic ideas of this chapter, together with the ‘“‘principle of
         optimality’’, were first stated in the monograph “‘An Introduction to the
         Theory of Dynamic Programming,’’ RAND Corporation, 1953, an out-
         growth of a shorter paper written in 1952, but not published then. This
         paper, in turn, was the result of research done in 1949, 1950 and 1951, and
         contained in a number of unpublished papers.
           § 3. As we have recently shown in connection with some joint work
         (R. Bellman and R. Kalaba, ‘‘On the Principle of Invariant Imbedding and
         Propagation Through Inhomogeneous Media,’ Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., (1956),
         the “‘principle of optimality” is actually a particular application of what we
         have called the “‘principle of invariant imbedding.’’ A special form of the
         invariance principle was used by Ambarzumian ‘“‘On the Scattering of
         Light by a Diffuse Medium,’’ C. R. Doklady, Sci. U.R.S.S. 38 (1943), p. 257
         and extensively developed by S. Chandrasekhar Radiative Transfer, Ox-
         ford, 1950. An early use of the method is due to G. Stokes (Mathematical
         and Physical Papers, Vol. IV, ‘“‘On the intensity of the light reflected from
         or transmitted through a pile of plates,’ pp. 145-156).
          The functional equation technique used throughoutis intimately related
         to the ‘“‘Point of Regeneration’? method used in the study of branching
         processes, cf. R. Bellman and T. E. Harris, ‘“‘On Age-Dependent Binary
         Branching Processes,’’ Ann. Math., Vol. 55 (1952), pp. 280-295.
          Actually, we have made no systematic effort to trace the origin and use
         of invariance principles, and the above references represent only a few of
         the many that could be cited. One, however, which cannot be ignored is
         J. Hadamard, ‘‘Le principe de Huygens,” Bull. Soc. Math. France, 52 (1924),
         pp. 610-640, where there is an interesting discussion of causality, functional
         equations and Huygens’ principle.
          The classic reference to semi-group theory is E. Hille, “‘Functional Ana-
         lysis and Semi-groups,’’ Amer. Math. Soc., 1948.
          § 6. A detailed discussion of the formulation of variational problems as
         continuous decison processes will be found in Chapter 9.
          § 9. A discussion of causality and optimality, together with the interrelation
         withsemi-groups maybefoundin R. Bellman, ‘‘Dynamic Programming andA
         New Formalism in the Theory of Integral Equations,’’ Proc. Nat. Acad. Sc1.,
         Vol. 41 (1955), pp. 31-34.
           Problem 92. See R. Bellman, ‘‘Dynamic ProgrammingandLagrangeMul-
         tiphers’’, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., Vol. 42 (1956), pp. 767-769.
                                                   115
                     CHAPTER IV
             Existence and Uniqueness Theorems
          § 1. Introduction
         In the previous chapter we outlined the skeletal structure of dynamic
       programming processes and derived various general classes of functional
       equations. In this chapter, we shall abstract the particular methods
       utilized in Chapter I and II to treat the equations occurring therein and
       derive some existence and uniqueness theorems for the more general
       equationsofChapterIII. Ourprincipal toolwillbe themethodofsuccessive
       approximations due to Picard.
        Althoughall the proofs follow essentiallyacommontrack, eachrequires
       its own detour at an appropriate point. Consequently, in place of at-
       tempting to frame the hypothesesin such general terms that we can state
       all our results in a single theorem, at the possible expense of clarity and
       loss of understanding of the simple mechanism involved, we have divided
       our results into a number of theoremsreferring to particular classes of
       equations. The basic method of proof is, however, the same throughout.
        Ourfirst step consists of formalizing the device we have used before to
       compare the solutions of two equations, cf. § 7 of Chapter I and § 6 of
       Chapter II. The resulting inequality is essential to our proofs in this chap-
       ter, and will be utilized again in our treatment of multi-stage games in a
       later chapter, and in comparison theoremsin the calculus of variations in
       Chapter IX.
        The first class of equations we treat are those where each operation
       results in a shrinking of resources, which is to say, the point transforma-
       tions involved are shrinking transformations in the sense of Cacciopoli.
       Equationsof this type weratherunimaginativelycallequationoftypeone.
        The next class of equations which wediscuss are those where the prob-
       ability of survival decreases uniformly with each operation. This is
       equivalent to the functional transformation being a shrinking transfor-
       mation. These equations we name equations of type two.
        Both types have, in particular cases, the form
       (1)    f(p) = Sup [g (6,9) +h (b, Nf(T (pb, D)]
       where the quantities occurring are as defined in the previous chapter.
       116
                                 EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                  As we shall see these equations are rather readily treated by standard
                iterative techniques, with the aid of our basic inequality. Equations which
                do not belong to either of these classes usually require some fancier
                techniques, as we shall see in our treatment of a particular equation in
                § 8. All equations not of types one or two, we blithely lump together as
                those of type three.
                  Following these results on existence and uniqueness, weshall discuss
                monotone convergence in a general setting, and state some general sta-
                bility theorems established in the same fashion as before.
                  After indicating somedirections of generalization, which can be carried
                quite far, we shall consider a particular equation of type three, as men-
                tioned above. Here we have a combination of two types of shrinking
                transformations, and the treatment is a bit more involved.
                  Weshall close the chapter with a discussion of an interesting integral
                equation arising in the theory of ‘‘optimal inventory”or “‘stock control,”
                a subject which weshall treat in greater detail in the following chapter,
                where particular solutions are obtained.
                  Apart from their interest in connection with multi-stage decision pro-
                cesses, the equations we consider possess the analytic merit of constitu-
                ting in many ways a natural extension of linear equations. As such, their
                study is valuable since they serve as a bridge between the well-regulated
               preserve of linear equations and the as yet untamed jungle of nonlinear
               equations.
                    § 2. A Fundamental inequality
                  Let us consider the two functional transformations
               (1             Sho=EHat|fae(a7),
                              Sithg) =hba) + |fae(an),
               where dG (pf, q,7) > 0, and define two additional transformations as
               follows:
               (2)                    a.  fo(p) = Sup S,(fi B, 9)
                                      b.   F,(p) = Sup S2 (Ff, p, 9).
                  There is no need to go into a discussion of what we meanbytheStieltjes
               integral here since we are using it in a purely formal manner. All our
               results will actually be utilized for the case where i    f(")dG(g¢gn =
                                                                     reD
                                                                                        117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                                                                                  h (p, 9g) f(T (p, g)), and the reader unfamiliar with the Stieltjes integral
                                                                                                  need merely make this transformation to reduce all the equations to
                                                                                                  familiar terms, or he may consider dG (p,qg,7) to have the form
                                                                                                  H(pf, q, r) dv, with H > 0.
                                                                                                                  The inequality we wish to proveis
                                                                                                  LEMMA l.
                                                                                                   (3)                                                                                      |     fe (Pb) — Fe (6) | <Sup[|g (6,9) —A (2,9) |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7)].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (p,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     dG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   hi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                                    Proor. Let us simplify the notation initially by assuming that both
                                                                                                  transformations in (2) have the property that the supremumis actually a
                                                                                                  maximum. Let then g = g (p) be a value of g for which the maximumis
                                                                                                  assumed in (2a), and g = g (p) be a value of g for which the maximum is
                                                                                                  assumed in (2b). Then we have the following set of equalities and ine-
                                                                                                  qualities:
                                                                                                  (4)                                                                                                                                    a. f2(p) = Si(fi, B, 9) = SilA, B, 9)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         b. F's (p) — Se (Fi, 2, q) => S2(Fi, p, 9) )
                                                                                                  as in § 7 of Chapter I and § 6 of ChapterIT.
                                                                                                                  From these follow immediately
                                                                                                  (5)                          fe) Fil) =e(6.9—AwD+ |(A)—FulaGo.g.n),
                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                               fa) —Fs (6) < (6.9)—h(6.9)} + |(A)Fal)aC(6.0.7).
                                                                                                  These, in turn, yield the single inequality
                                                                                                  (6)                               |   fe (b) — Fe (A) |
                                                                                                                                                                isa—hOM/+[ IAM—Fim) [aG@a),
                                                                                                 <_ Max                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "
                                                                                                                                                                             |g (2,9) —h(P, vi+] |fi (7) —Fi (7) | 4G (f,9,7),
                                                                                                  from which the result in (3) is immediate.!
                                                                                                                  To obtain the result as stated in terms of the supremum it is only
                                                                                                  necessary to note that the supremum maybe obtained arbitrarily closely
                                                                                                  by the value of the function for some g = q (p). The argument then pro-
                                                                                                  ceeds via a limiting procedure.
                                                                                                                  1           Weare using the simple result that a < ¥ < bimplies|%| < Max(|a|,|0]).
                                                                                                   118
                                                                                   EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                                  § 3. Equations of Type One
                                            Let us now impose the following conditions upon the functions entering
                                      into the equation of (1.1):
                                      (1)                                   a. g (p,q) ts untformly bounded for all qgeS and all pe D
                                                                                    satisfying                     the         restriction                     ||   p||<c,, where || p || =
                                                                                    (Epa)". D is the domain off, ut contains the nullvector
                                                                                     b — 6, and T (p,q) € D for all pe D.
                                                                             b. g (9,9) = 0forallqeS.
                                                                             c.      |A(p,9)|< 1 forallpeDandgeS.
                                                                                                                                               |, for some a <1, for all ge S and
                                                                             d.       ||   7 (6,9) ||<a||#
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                      all p ¢ D.
                                                                             e.      Ifv(c) =                          Sup              Sup) (p,q) |, then &' v (arc) << o~.
                                                                                                                 | pil <e«                  q                                             n=O
                                       Equations which satisfy these assumptionsare called equations of Type
                                       One. In manycases, it may be more convenient, and natural, to use the
                                                                                   AS
                                       norm || ~p/| =                              © | pf: |. It will be clear from the argumentation below
                                                                                 p=      1
                                        that the precise form of the norm is of little importance.
                                              Ourprincipal result concerning these equationsis the following:
                                       THEOREM |. Consider the equation
                                        (2)                                 F(p) = Sup [g (2,9) +AOF(7(6, 9))],                                                                                      PAO
                                                                                                      q
                                                                            f(9) = 9,
                                        assumed to be of Type One.
                                               There 1s exactly one solution of(2) which ts continuous at p = 6 and equal
                                        to zero there, and defined over all of D.
                                               This solution may be obtained as the limit of the sequence {fn (p)} defined
                                        as follou's:
                                        (3)         a. fo (p) = Sup g (A, 9)
                                                                                         y
                                                     b. fn +1 (pb) = Sup [g(h, 9) + 4(b, 9) fn (F (P, 9), 2 = 90,1, 2,...
                                                                                                q
                                        Alternatively, any initial function fy (p) which is continuous at p == 0 and
                                        equal to zero there, and boundedfor || p || <c,for any c, > 0, pe D, may be
                                         used 11 (3b) to yield a convergent sequence.
                                               If g(p,q), A(p, 9), and T (p,q) are continuous in p in any bounded
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     119
                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTENCE AND UNTOUENESS THEOREMS
                                                                                        portion ofD, uniformlyfor aiiq« ‘., "++ £(b) ts continuous in any bounded
                                                                                         portion of D.
                                                                                         ProoF. Let us consiac: tie sequeccc defined by (3). Using Lemma1,
                                                                                        provedin § 2, we have for ” > 1,
                                                                                        (4)                          |fn+1(p) —fn(h) |< Sup |4(~, 9) | | fn (T (Pp, @)) —fr-1(T (A, 9))|
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <Sup |fn (T (p, 9)) —fn-1(T (f, 9))|,
                                                                                        and
                                                                                        (5)                                             |   fi (Pb) —fo (p) |= Sup | fo (7 (P, 9))| = Sup | 8 (2, 9) |.
                                                                                                     Let us now define the new sequence
                                                                                       (6)                                                          Un (Cc) = Sup | fa +3 (P) —fr(p)|,                                                                                                                                                                              |lel|]l<ce, peD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                    Using the function defined in (1 e), we see that vy (c) = v (c). Turning
                                                                                       to (4) we have, for pe D, || p || <ce.
                                                                                       (7)                        Sup | fn +1(p) —fn (p) | < Sup Sup | fn (L (B, g)) —fn-4 (F(A, 9))|
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dp
                                                                                                                           q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               < Sup |fn(p)—fr-1(6) |,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ll pl | <ae
                                                                                      by virtue of our assumption concerning T (, g). Hence vn +1 (c) < vn (ac),
                                                                                      nm =0,1,2,..., or vn (c) < Vo (a* c). It follows that the series 2 [fn +1()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n= 0
                                                                                     —fn(p)] converges uniformly for || ||<<c, and hence that {fn (p)}
                                                                                     converges uniformly to a function f(p) for || p || <c.
                                                                                                  This completes the proof of onistov and the proof of the statements
                                                                                     concerning convergence and continuity.
                                                                                                  To establish uniqueness, let f(f) and F (pf) be two solutions of (1)
                                                                                     continuous at # = 6, and hencedefined for all # e D. Let
                                                                                     (8)                                                                       v(c) = sup [/(P) ~F () | NP ise, ped.
                                                                                    Applying Lemma1, we have
                                                                                    (9)                                                                  |   f(b) —F (6) |S Sup |f(7 (6, q)) —F (TL (6, 9))I,
                                                                                    whence
                                                                                    (10)                                                                                                                        v (c) <v (ac) <<... <v(are).
                                                                                    Since f(f) and F (f) are continuous for p = 0, v (a* c) > 0 as n> ov.
                                                                                    Hence v (c) = 0, andf(p) = F (p).
                                                                                    }20
                                                                                 EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                            The utility of Lemma1 lies in the fact that it enables us to bypass any
                                      discussionofthebehaviorofthemaximizing qg as a function of , a subject
                                      of great difficulty about whichlittle is known, in general.
                                                  § 4. Equations of Type Two
                                            Let us now consider the equation of (1.1) where we impose the condi-
                                      tions
                                      (1)                                  a.      |g (p,q) | ts untformly boundedfor all ge S, and
                                                                                   |p | Sa, peD.
                                                                          b. |A(p,9) | <a <1 for all geS and uniformly in any
                                                                                  region || p || <c,, peD.
                                                                          c.       ||   T (p, 9) ||< || 2 || for all p or alternatively D 1s a
                                                                                  bounded region, and no condition 1s imposed upon T apart
                                                                                 from the condition that T (p, q) ¢ D for all pe D.
                                      Equationssatisfying these conditions we shall call equations of Type Two.
                                      Weshall demonstrate.
                                      THEOREM 2. If
                                      (2)                                      Ff (Pp) = Sup [g (2, 9) + h (6,9) F(T (A, 9)))
                                                                                                        q
                                     ts an equation of Type Two, there 1s a unique solution which 1s bounded in
                                     any finite part of D.
                                            The solution may be found by means of successive approximations as
                                     before, and the previous statements concerning continuity of the solution
                                     remain valid.
                                     ProoF. Let
                                     (3)                      fo (pb) = Sup g (p,4)
                                                      fn+1(p) = Sup [g (p, 9) + (Pf, 9g) fa (T (2, 9))], 2 = 9,1, 2, ...
                                           Using Lemma1, we have
                                     (4)          |fn+1(p) —fn (Pp) |< Sup | (p, a) Ufa (T (fb, g)) —fa -1 (T (P, 9))] |
                                                                                                    <aSup |fn (T (f, 9)) —fr-1(T (6, 9)) |,
                                     where a < 1. From this point on the proof clearly parallels the proof of
                                     Theorem 1. The vanishing at                                                       = 6 is now a consequenceof the equation
                                     itself.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          121
                                          EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                          § 5. Monotone convergence
                       Wehave in the preceding sections demonstrated convergence of the
                    successive approximation under assumptions which yielded essentially
                    geometric convergence. Let us now show that, under the assumption
                    that h (p, g) > 0, whichis true in all the applications to date, we have at
                    our disposal a method of choosing an initial approximation which will
                    yield monotone convergence in addition.
                       In some equations of Type Three, where convergence of geometric type
                    is either difficult to establish, or else non-existent, this is a valuable
                    technique.
                       Let us consider our equation in the form
                    (1)                 f(p) = Max [g (6,9) +h (p, 9 f(T (6, Q))I-
                       Let go = Go (Pf) be an initial approximation to g (f) and let fo (p) be
                    determined by use of this policy, Le.,
                    (2)                  fo (b) = &(b, Go) + A (P, 90) fo (T (P, qo),
                    and the sequence {fn (p)}, m = 1, 2, ..., then be determined recursively,
                    (3)  fn+1(p) = Sup [g (pb, 9) + 4 (6,9) fo (TF (p,9))],                  n= 9,1,2,...
                    [Having introduced the concept of approximation in policy space,it is
                    now convenient to use the supremum again to bypass questions of no
                    little difficulty, concerning continuity over g.] Let us assume,as in the
                    case of equations of Types One and Two,that sufficient conditions have
                    been imposed to have the sequence {fn (f)} uniformly bounded in any
                    finite portion of D.
                       It is immediately seen that f, (p) > fo. (f), and therefore, by virtue of
                    the non-negativity of (p,q), that fn+i1(f) >fn (Pp) for all x. It follows
                    thatfn (p) converges to a functionf (f) as 7 — oo,in anyfinite part of D.
                       If g is a memberof a finite set S, there is no question of the conver-
                    gence of {f, (#)} to an actualsolution of (3), where the supremum is now
                    a maximum. If S contains a continuum,it is perhaps not immediate that
                   f(p) is the bounded solution of
                    (4)                f(b) = Sup [¢ (6, 9) + 4 (6, 9) fF (A, @))].
                    To establish this, we observe that by virtue ofthemonotone convergence,
                    we have
                    (5)               fn+1(p) < Sup lg (6,9) +h (pb, af(T (e, 9))),
                    whence
                    122
                              EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
               (6)          f(e)< Sup 8(A,9 + hb. gf(T (pb, 9))).
                 On the other hand, we have
               (7)          f(b) = Sup g(P,9) + 4(p, 9) fa (T (Bp, 9)))
                                 =£(b. q) +h (p,q) fu (T (Pp, 9))
              for all ge S and all x. Letting ” — oo, we obtain the reverse inequality to
              (6), and hence equality.
                This property of monotone convergenceor, at worst, monotoneapprox-
              imation, is particularly useful in other parts of the theory of dynamic
              programming, and in particular, in applications to the calculus of varia-
              tions, as weshall see in a later chapter.
                   § 6. Stability theorems
                In the theory of functional equations a problem of great theoretical
              interest, with important physical ramifications, is that of the dependence
              of the solution upon the form of the equation. In particular, a great deal
              of effort has been devoted to the determination of those equations which
              have the property that small changes in the form of the equation effect
              correspondingly small changes in the form of the solution. Equations
              which do not have this property are in the mainoflittle physical interest.
                Let us now consider the two equations,
              (1)          a. f (p) = Sup lg (6,9) + A(2, 9) f(T (A, 9),
                                       qg
                           b. F (p) = Sup[G (p,q) + A (6, 9) F(T (d, g))I,
                                       q
              and assume, to begin with, that they are both of Type One. Wewish to
              obtain an inequality for Sup | /f(p) — F (pf) |, fe D, || || <c, where f
                                       p
              andFare the unique solutions vanishing at  = 0, and continuousthere,
              of their respective equations.
                To obtain this inequality, we employ the method of successive approx-
              imations in both equations, setting
              (2)          fi (Pf) = Sup g (A, 9)
                           fn+1(p) = Sup [g (f, g) + A (Pf, 9) fa (T (P, 9))]
                                        q
                           F’, (p) = Sup G (A, 9)
                           Fn+1(p) = Sup [G (p,q) + Ab, 9g) Fn (T (6, 9)))
                                                                               123
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                                                                                                                                        We have
                                                                                                                                   (3)                                                                                                                         |       F, (pb) —fi (pb) | < Sup |G (A, g) —¢ (2,9) |,
                                                                                                                                    and
                                                                                                                                   (4)                                                                                           |       Fn +1 (b) —fn +1 (9) = Sup [|G (p, 9) — 8 (2, 9)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  + hh (p, 9) || Fn (T (p, 9)) —fn (T (P, @))|].
                                                                                                                                    Let us define
                                                                                                                                  (5)                                                                                                                       u(c)=                                                                                Sup                                                        Sup|G(p, 9) —g(P,4q) |.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                llp||<e                                                                                     @
                                                                                                                                  Then we have
                                                                                                                                 THEOREM 3. With the above notation, for equations of Type One,
                                                                                                                                 (6)                                                                                                                                          Sup FO)SO) |S Fularo)
                                                                                                                                   PROOF.Set
                                                                                                                                (7)                                                                                                                                      wn (c) = UP Sup | Fn (b) —fn (8)|-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n—l1
                                                                                                                                It can be shown inductively that we have wa(c)< 2 u(a*c), n>1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           = 0
                                                                                                                               using (4), and the hypotheses governing an equation of Type One. Letting
                                                                                                                               nN —> oo, we obtain (6), since Fn (p) > F (pf), and fn (fp) >f (p).
                                                                                                                                                    Similarly,
                                                                                                                               THEOREM 4. With the above notation, for equations of Type Two,
                                                                                                                               (8)                                                                                                                                                     sup | F (p) —(f) |< uw (c)/(1—a).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ilpl| se
                                                                                                                                                  The proof follows the same lines as above,andis therefore omitted.
                                                                                                                                                   Similar estimates can be obtained in the cases where h (p, qg) and
                                                                                                                               IT (pf, g) are perturbed.
                                                                                                                                                                      § 7. Some directions of generalization
                                                                                                                                                  A first generalization of (1.1) is the equation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                             (1)                                                                                                          f(b) = Sup [g (2, 9) + & hi (P, 9) F(Ti (po, 9))),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  q                                                                                                                  i=
                                                                                                                              which,in turn,is a particular case of
                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                        FP) = Sup ig (6.9) + |£0) aG (6, 9,71
                                                                                                                              124
                                           EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                    The methods utilized above yield analogues of the preceding theorems
                    concerning existence, uniqueness and stability for the above equations,
                    and systems of the form
                    8) fi) =Suplerat+2|AdGulbanhi=12WN,
                                        q                  =
                    which is equivalent in form to (2) if we employ vector-matrix notation.
                       An example of (2) is the equation of “optimal inventory,”’
                    (4)   f(x) = Inf [v (x, y) + a[(1 —G (y)) f (0) + |fo—s aG (s)]],
                                    Y2U
                    which weshall treat in detail in the next chapter.
                          § 8. An equation of the third type
                       The technique of approximation in policy space which yields monotone
                    convergence, discussed abovein § 5, is veryuseful in establishing the exist-
                    ence of solutions of equations of Type Three, a class, let us recall, defined
                    quite simply as the complementary class of equations of Type One or
                    Type Two.
                       Establishing the uniquenessof the solution of equations of Type Three
                    is, in general, a problem of a greater level of difficulty, as we shall see
                    below, and in a later chapter on multi-stage games where we discuss
                    “eames of survival.”’
                       Let us illustrate these remarks by considering the functional equation,
                    1)       f(6) = Min (1 + Epef(ex), Min (1 + f(Tr A)2 A He
                             f(%o) = 0,
                    where / runs overtheset of integers 1, 2, ..., M@. Here weset
                                                                                     1;
                                                                             p=
                                                                         XY
                                                             iSO,
                                                       Pn)
                                                     +,
                                                 -+
                                           pi
                                       (bo
                                p=
                    (2)
                                                                        ~7~=0
                                Tip = (fo, Pu, .-., Pat), Pit > O, Por 41, LY pu = 1,
                                                                                           i=0
                                             where pi = Pi (f);) = 1, 2,...,M;
                                Xp = (0,...,1,..., 0), the 1 occurring in the kt® place,
                                                            k=0,1,...,n.
                   The function f (f) is a scalar function of #.
                                                                                                                  125
                                            EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                        This equation is a greatly extended version of the equation appearing
                     in Exercise 39 of ChapterI.
                        This equation can be considered to arise in the following way. A system
                     is known to be in one of (N + 1) different states, which we denote by
                     O,1, 2, ..., N, with an initial probability {px} that it is in the At» state.
                     By means of a combination of the following operations, each of which
                     consumes a unit time, we wish to transform the system into the 0-state,
                     with certainty that it is in that state, in a minimum expected time:
                            L: We observe the actual state of the system and proceed with that
                                  knowledge;
                            A: Weperform an operation A; that converts the original prob-
                                  ability distribution {px} into a new distribution {x7}.
                        Let p = (fo, fi, -.-, pn), andf(p) denote the expected time required
                     using an optimal policy, when the system is initially in state p. Then/ (p)
                     satisfies (1) above.
                        Weshall prove
                     THEOREM 5. Iffor each transformation T;, andfor all p, tt 1s true that
                                                     n
                                                                                   <1,
                                                                         O<e
                                                        praca,
                                                     S
                     (3)
                                                   k=1
                     then there exists a unigue bounded solution to (1) above. This function 1s
                     positive for bp # Xo.
                     ProoF. Weshall employ the method of successive approximations, using
                     as our first approximation an approximation in policy space. Let us re-
                     present by L the choice of 1 + 2 xf (xx), and by T, the choice of / =
                                                                 k=0
                     1 in (1). We consider the function F, (f) determined by the policy symbol-
                     ized by LT, LT, ..., and the function F, (#) determined by the policy
                     T,LT,L... It is clear that
                     (4)                        Fy (6) =1+F.,(1p),                  p#%o,
                                               F(t) 14 2 paFy(xx), px x0.
                                                F, (xo) _ Fn, = 0.
                     Hence, for 1 = 1, 2, ..., ”,
                                                                                    2=1,2,...,n.
                                                                           (xx),
                                                                      Fy
                                                                 pu
                                                         +2
                                                      2
                                                  =
                                            (x1)
                                        Fy
                     (5)
                                                       n
                     Since, by assumptions 2 pxi<c, <1, the determinant of the system
                                                    k=1
                     126
                                           EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                    does not vanish andthe system has a uniquesolution, necessarily positive,
                    as we see bysolving iteratively. Having determined F, (x1), the deter-
                    mination of F, (p) and, hence, F, (f) for general #, is immediate.
                       To begin our successive approximations, define
                    (6)   fo (p) = Min [F,(f), Fe (A),
                          faa(P) = Min (1 +Epefa (val), Min [1 +fu (PrBI]PH
                          fn +1 (%0) = 0.
                       It is readily seen that f. (p) >f,(p) >... fa (p) > Lp F xo.
                       Hencefn (p) converges monotonically to a functionf(f) which clearly
                    satisfies the functional equation. This establishes the existence of a bound-
                    ed solution.
                       The uniqueness proof is considerably more complicated and proceeds
                    in a series of steps. Letf (p) and g (f) be two boundedsolutionsof (1). The
                    first step is
                    Lemma 2. Sup |f(p) —g (A) | = Max |f(%«) — g (Xx) |.
                    ProoF. The inequality
                    (7)                  Max | (%x) — g (Xx) | < Sup | f(p) —g (A) |
                    is clear. To demonstrate the reverse inequality, we consider four cases:
                    (8)                             a.   flp)=1+ E pef(xe)
                                                                          k= 1
                                                         g(p) =1+ 2 preg (xx)
                                                                          k= 1
                                                    b.   f(b) =1 4 E pef(xs)
                                                                          k=1
                                                         g(p) = 1+ ¢ (1p)
                                                   ec.   f(p) =1+f(Tr?)
                                                         g(p) =1+ 2 peg (xx)
                                                                          k=1
                                                    d.   f(p)=1+f(r)
                                                         g(?) =1+¢Ur?)
                       Considerfirst the case correspondingto (a). We have
                                                                                                                   127
                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                                                                    9)                                                                                                 FP) —8(0) = Edelflee) —@ Goa)
                                                                                    whence
                                                                                    (10)                                                                                            LF () —g (6) |< Max |f(ex) —¢ (ve)|.
                                                                                    Therefore for all p for which (8a) holds, the lemmais correct. Equation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                    (8a) will hold whenever # is close to ¥%o, sincel + 2 pxf (xx) is less than 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         k=1
                                                                                    in this case, and 1+ f(71 p) > 2. Thus 1+f(71 p) and 1+ g (Tip)
                                                                                    will exceed the result of the L-move?for p close to %o, for] = 1,2,..., M.
                                                                                                 This is an important point since the crux of our proof is the fact that
                                                                                     (8a) will always occur after a finite number of moves, by virtue of the
                                                                                    condition in (3).
                                                                                                 Nowconsider case (8b). We have
                                                                                    (11)                                                                                             fp) =1+Epeflee) <1 +f(T?)
                                                                                                                                                                                     g(p) =L+g(Tip) <1 +©peg(x).
                                                                                    Hence
                                                                                    (12)                          |  (6) —g (P) | << Max (Max |f(xx) —g (x) |, Sup [f(Tr) —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            —g(TiP) |},
                                                                                    and similarly for (8c).
                                                                                                 From (8d) we derive
                                                                                   (13)                          |   f(b) — g (b) |< Max i] f(Tv p) —g (Tif) |, |f (Tv b) —8 (Tv B)|}.
                                                                                                 We nowiterate these inequalities. For any fixed £, 71, Ti. ... Tin P
                                                                                   will be in the region governed by(8a) for 1 large enough. Consequently,
                                                                                   we obtain
                                                                                    (14)                                                                             Sup | f(b) — 8 () | = Max |f(xx) — g (%x)|.
                                                                                    This completes the proof of the lemma.
                                                                                                 It remains to show that Max | f(xx) — g (xx) | =0. Let & be an index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             k
                                                                                   atwhichthemaximumisassumed.Itfollowsfrom the functional equation
                                                                                   for f and g that
                                                                                   (15)                                                                                                             F(wxr) =1L+f(Ti xx), l =1(R)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      § (xe) =1 +g (Lixx),= (R).
                                                                                                 2         1.e., L-choice.
                                                                                    128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                                                                                                                As above we have
                                                                                                                                (16)                                                                                                                                        fxn) = 1+f(Tixe) <1V+f(Tv x)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (xe) = 1+ g (Tv xe) <1 + 8 (Tix).
                                                                                                                                 If both inequalities are proper, we have
                                                                                                                                (17)                                          |     f(xe) — g (xe) | < Max | | f(Ti xx) — g (Ti xx) |, f Tr’ xx) —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  —g(Tu xx) | |< Sup |f(p) — g (Pp)|,
                                                                                                                               a contradiction.
                                                                                                                                                    Thus, for either / or /’, we have
                                                                                                                                (18)                                                                                                                                                                                                     f(xn) = 1+f(Ti xx), or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           & (xe) = 1+ g (Li xx).
                                                                                                                                This means that the first choices from the position x; can be the same.
                                                                                                                                                     Consider nowthe situation for second moves. Using the same argument,
                                                                                                                                we see that the second moves,i.e., the equations forf (T,x,) andg (Ti Xx)
                                                                                                                                can also be the same, andso on,inductively.
                                                                                                                                                    Let fn = fn (Xx) be the distribution achieved after 7 moves, where the
                                                                                                                               (n + 1)st move puts x, into the region governed by (8a), The argument
                                                                                                                               above showsthatfand g land in this region on the same move. Thus,
                                                                                                                                (19)                                                                                                                                                                                fee) = (8+ I +Epenfee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      g (Hx) = (0 + 1) +Epeng (ee),
                                                                                                                             and consequently
                                                                                                                             (20)                                                                                                                              LF(en) — g (2) |< _E pen |fe) —8 (an)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           < | 1 — Pon | Sup | f (%x) — g (xx) |.
                                                                                                                             Since 1 > fon > 0, this implies that | f(xz) — g (xx) | = 0. Hence Sup
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                                               |     f(b) — g (p) | = 0, which completes our uniqueness proof.
                                                                                                                                                                     § 9. An “optimal inventory” equation
                                                                                                                                                  In this section we shall discuss the equation
                                                                                                                             (1)                                                    f(*) = Inf [A (y—x) +a (|e (s — y) p (s) ds + f (0) [ e ds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     + [fo—Jeas),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 129
                                       EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                  for x > 0, which we have already mentioned above in its more general
                  form involving a Stieltjes integral. As we shall see in the following chapter
                  this is an equation which occurs in the study of ‘‘optimal inventory” or
                  “stock level’’ control. The proof of existence and uniqueness of solution
                  logically appears here since we shall employ the same techniquesas in
                  the previous sections.
                     Consistent with the policy we have followed throughout, we shall not
                  consider the general equation, involving Stieltjes integrals.
                     To simplify the subsequent notation, set
                  Q)     Tymf)=ko—x) + al]pls—y)pb) ds +FO |oloyds
                                                -|- [fo —9 909 ds).
                  The equation in (1) then has the form
                  (3)                            f(x) = Int T (y, x, f).
                                                          y>u
                  Let us impose the following conditions:
                  (4)   a. p(s) =0,        [,vas—1
                        b. #(s) is monotoneincreasing, continuous, and |“ p(s) p(s) ds <0
                        c.  k(y) is continuous for y > 0, k (oo) = oo.
                        d.0<a<l.
                     Under these conditions, we have the result
                  THEOREM 6. There is a unique solution to (1) which ts boundedfor x in any
                  finite interval. This solution f (x) 1s continuous.
                     Let fo (x) be any non-negative continuous function defined over 0 < x.
                     Define the sequence {fn (x)} as follows,
                  (5)              fn+1 (x) = Min (y, x,fn),           =0,1, 2,....
                                                 yar
                  Thenf(x) = hm fn (x) existfor x > 0 and ts the solution of
                  (6)                            f(#) = Min T (9, xf),
                                                           ¥ ADU
                  Proor. The proof follows very familiar lines. For each m > 1, let
                  130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                                                                                                             Yn = Yn (x) be a value of y for which (y, x, fn) attains its minimum.
                                                                                                                             Since /, (x) is continuous by assumption, we see inductively that each
                                                                                                                             element of the sequence is continuous. Since T (00, x,fn) = co, the
                                                                                                                             minimum is attained.
                                                                                                                                                 Wehavethen,
                                                                                                                              (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fn+1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (yn,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fn)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Vn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             x,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fn)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tn = T (yn - 1, %, fn - i)< T (yn, %, fn - 1)
                                                                                                                              Combining these inequalities in the usual way, we obtain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T
                                                                                                                               (8)                                                                       |     fn+1—fn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |        <Max{ | T (yn, x,fn) —T (yn, %,fn -1) |,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |T (yn- 1, %, fn) —T (yn -1, %, fu 1) |}
                                                                                                                              or
                                                                                                                               (9)                                       |     fas—fn |< Max {a [™ |fu (Yn — 5) —fu~1(9n 5) | p(s) ds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              + a| fn (0) —fn ~ 1 (0)| — @ (s) 4s,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                p(s)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     —fn-1(¥n—S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (Yn—-1—S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [fn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     alfu0)—fn-1) | fps) as}
                                                                                                                              Hence
                                                                                                                              (10) Max|fa+a (x) —fa(x)|<a Max |fn(#) —fa-1(9|{(6) ds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <a Max fn (x) —fn-1(*) |.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 <2 < ©
                                                                                                                              Thus the series 2’ (fn +1 (x) —fn (x)) converges uniformly in a finite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n = 0
                                                                                                                              interval for all x > 0, and f, (x) converges to f(x) for all x > 0. Since
                                                                                                                              eachfn (x) is continuous, f (x) 1s also continuous.
                                                                                                                                                   To prove uniqueness, let F (x) be another solution which is uniformly
                                                                                                                              bounded for x > 0. Using the same technique as above for the two equa-
                                                                                                                              tions
                                                                                                                              (11)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F(x) = Min T \y, x, F)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          f(@) = MinTy, xf),
                                                                                                                              we readily show that F (x) —f (x) 1s identically zero. The case where Min
                                                                                                                               is replaced by Inf in (1) is again handled by an approximation process.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13]
                                             EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                        Finally, let us note that if we take
                     (2)             fi)=Min[k(y—a) +a]p(s—y)p(s) ds
                                     fr (x) — Man [L (y, x, fi),
                     and so on, we obtain monotone increasing convergence, since f, (x) >
                    f;, (x), and hence. inductively, fn +1 («) > fn (x) for all n.
                        Onthe other hand, we may also obtain monotone convergence by ap-
                     proximating in policy space. We may set y = x for all x > 0 and obtain
                     as our first approximation
                     (3)          fi) =a [ps—xg)ds+alAwe—spas
                                                                                + afy, (0) [. gy (s) ds
                     for x > 0.
                        This equation is a “renewal equation” whose solution weshall discuss
                     in an appendix to the following chapter.
                        Determiningf, (x) by meansof the equation
                     (14) f(x) = Min (h y—x) +a |” b(s—y) p(s)ds +af,(0|etss)ds +
                                                                a |fily—s) @ (s) as],
                     it follows thatf, (x) <f, (x). We thus obtain monotone decreasing conver-
                     gence if we set
                     (15)                           fu +1 (x) = Min T (y, x,fa).
                                                                    y2u
                            Exercises and Research Problems for Chapter IV
                     1.  Determine the structure of the optimal policies associated with the
                     functional equation
                                               f(b) = Max [R (p,q) + f(F (2, 9))]
                     under the assumption that R (p, g) and T (p, q) are convex functions of
                     p and gq, and that R (p, g) and T (#, g) are monotoneincreasing functions
                     of # for each @.
                     132
                                    EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                 2. Carry through the details of an existence and uniqueness theorem for
                 the system of equations
                                               N
                fl) =Maxigeb.g + 2 [fb dGuianhi=1,2,...,N.
                             q               j=1 reD
                 3. Show that we obtain an equation belonging to this class if we add to
                 Problem 45 of chapter I the further condition that at any stage there is a
                 probability#,that thetradein valuewillberuledbythefunction¢, (x) anda
                 probability p, = 1 — p,that it will be ruled by the functionf, (x).
                 4. Consider the multi-dimensional process where the resources at any
                 stage are measured by the non-negative vector p. At each stage # is
                                                                    r
                 divided into 7 non-negative vectors g;, p = & q;. As a result of this allo-
                                                                  p=1                     r
                 cation, we obtain a return R (g) = R (qg;) and assume a cost of J (cj, 9).
                                                                                         j=l
                 Here (c, g) denotes the inner product of the two vectors.
                   Let Fy (z) denote the cost incurred obtaining a total return of z in N
                 stages, employing an optimal policy. Show that
                                                                N
                                           F,(2)=      Min      & (¢, 45),
                                                      Rq@=z j7=1
                                                       q2 0
                                                     N
                                Fin +1 (2) = Min [ 2 (¢;, qs) + Fr (2 — R (q))].
                                             q20 j=1
                 5. Under what conditions does the limiting equation
                                               N
                             F(z) = Min [ & (c;, 9) + F (z—R (p))], F (0) = 0,
                                       q20    j=1
                 have a solution ?
                 6. How can the following problem be formulated mathematically? We
                 are lost in a forest whose shape and dimensionsare precisely knownto us.
                 How do weget out in the shortest time?
                 7. Consider the case where the “‘forest’’ is the region between twoparallel
                 lines. (Gross).
                 8. Generalize the result of Theorem 5 by considering processes in which
                 we have either a denumerable number of different transformations at
                 each stage, or a continuum of transformations.
                 9. Consider the still more general process where there are a denumerable
                 number, or continuum,of states.
                                                                                                133
                                                                 EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                              10. Derive the functional equations corresponding to non-linearcriteria
                              and establish the corresponding existence and uniqueness theorems.
                               11. Consider, in particular, the criterion, for stochastic processes, of
                              maximizing the probability of obtaining at least a return Ro.
                               12. Consider the equation
                                                                                 etax=b6b,                         a,b>Od0.
                              Since for x > 0,
                                                                                 x? = Max [2xu — v?],
                                                                                            u> 0
                              the equation may be written
                                                                               Max [2xu + ax — u?] = b,
                                                                               u> 0
                              yielding, for the positive root
                                                                                                              
                                                                                      x = Min —
                                                                                                u> 0          2u+a
                                   On the other hand, setting x2 = y, we may write
                                                                                            y+ ay! = 6,
                                                                                   2y! — Min E + ul
                                                                                                Hn  - 0        Uu
                              obtaining
                                                                                 y = Max Paul?)
                                                                                            vu>o           Ll + a/2u
                              Thus
                                                                                a
                                                                                 b — au/2                                b+ uu?
                                                                                 1 + a/2u StS a+ Qu
                              for allO< u< 2 D/a.
                               13. Generalize these results, considering the equation x” + ax =).
                              Show that
                                                                          x” — Max (xu—g(u)), n>,
                                                                                      u> 0
                                                                                = Min (xu +h(u)), O<n <l,
                                                                                      u > 0
                              for suitable g (wu) and h (u), obtaining, n > 1,
                                                                                       [pb oDumjne-n)
                                                                                          
                                                                 x = Min
                                                                                                            atu
                                                                           u> 0
                              134
                                                                                                                         
                             EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
              and, forO << 1
                                       [—(1—n) (ujn)nitn ”y |
                                         
                                = M
                              *     a           1+ au
                                  u>0
              14. Show that if   (x) is strictly convex and differentiable, we have
                               y (x) = Max [p (u) — (uw — x) g’ (w)].
              and if concave,            ‘
                               y (x) = Min ip (u) — (u — x) yp’ (u) ].
              Give both analytic and geometric proofs.
              15. Consider the multi-dimensional analogue,
                                                          op             op
                  y (X1, %2) = Max    (tts, a) — (ts — %1) BE — (Ma — 4) Br]
              for convex functions, and the corresponding result for concave functions.
              16. Discuss the possibility of using these results to obtain explicit solu-
              tions for non-linear systems of the form
                                 V1 (x1, X) = %1, Po (x1, Xo) = Xe,
              where g, and g, are both concave or both convex.
              17. Newton’s method furnishes a sequence of successive approximations
                                    Xn +1 = Xn —f(%n)/f" (xn)
              to the solution off (x) = 0. Showthatiff’ (v) > 01n [ a, b] and alsof”(x)
              > 0 in this interval, we have
                                  x=
                                        Min
                                             [y—f(y)/f'
                                                         (y)],
                                      asysb
              for a root in this interval.
                Obtain corresponding expressions for the multi-dimensionalcase.
              18. Consider the two equations
                (a)  v(p) =Lv,f,9) + 4 (6,9),
                (b)  «(p) = Max [L (u, p, 7) + a (, q)].
              where u (f) is a scalar function of a vector #, belonging to a region R,
              and gavector variable, belonging to a set S which may or maynot depend
              upon #.
                                                                               135
                                                 EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                           Assume that
                           (1)   There is a unique solution of (a) for any fixed q = q (p), denoted by
                                 v (p,q), for p in R.
                           (2) There is a unique solution of (b) for p in R.
                           (3)   If w(p) >L wv, p,q) + a (p, 9) for a fixed g = q (pf),
                                 then w (p) > v (, 9).
                           Prove that under these assumptions we have
                                                                  u (p) = Max (A,9)
                       19. Under what assumptions concerning the matrix A (f, q) = (ai(P, @)),
                       can we determine the solutions of the systems
                                                                          N
                               ui (p) = Max [a(A, 9) +2 ais (P, q) uj (P)],                              += 1, 2,...,N,
                                                                       7=1
                                                q
                       Or
                                                                     N
                               Max[ai (p, q) Ui (p) + Mis (p, q) Uj (D)] =c,                                 += 1,2,...,N,
                                   q                               =
                       in the abovefashion ?
                       20. Let Fi (x) = Gi (x) = x, and
                                         Fn (%1, 2, ..., ¥n) = Max (1, Gn ~1 (%2, ..-, Xn) ),
                                         Gn (X41, x2, way Xn) = Min (x1, F'n _1 (Xe, w 2+, Xn) ).
                           Prove that
                                            1             1
                                  lim           a | Fy(x1, x2, ..., Xn) dx dx. ... din = V3/q,
                                 n> ©€
                                            1            1                                                                           —
                                  lim           tee | Gn (%1, %2, ..., Xn) dx1 dxe ... dxn =1—a V3/q.
                                na co
                                            (Gross-Wang, Amer. Math. Monthly, Vol 63 (1956), p. 589).
                       21. Let the y; be independent random variables assuming the values
                       1 with probability # and the value 0 with probability 1 — p. Let the »;
                       be a set of positive quantities. Set
                                                                   N              N
                                  gw (xi xi) = Prob | Fax ye (3 xi > xX),
                                                                i=1             i=1
                                  and IN (x) = Inf RN (x; xi)
                                                          vy;
                       136
                                                     EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                             Show that
                                                                            Xx   —_—_
                                                                                                                             
                           fw
                                 (*)
                                       =,
                                             dt
                                                        ows
                                                                    -(
                                                                             =)
                                                                                              +0-sm
                                                                                                                      »(2)|
                         and thus obtain a non-trivial uniform lower bound for gw (x; x:). (Harris)
                         22. Under what conditions does there exist a unique solution of the
                         equation
                                                            N
                                     u(x) = Min2 pj (x) u(x + ay),O< x <C,
                                                      +1  j7=1
                                     u(x) =0,x* <0,
                                     u(x) =1,x*x>C,
                         where, for O< x <C,
                                     (a) p; (x) > 0
                                            N
                                     (b) E py (x) = 1.
                                          =]
                             Consider the case where x assumes only a discrete set of values, {4},
                         and aij = miyA, where mi is a positive or negative integer.
                         23. Consider problem 15 in the exercises at the end of Chapter 3. Show
                         thattheproblemofdeterminingminimumcostisequivalenttotheproblem
                                                                                                 N
                         of determining the minimum of Ly (x) = 2 x; subject to the constraints
                                                                                                i=1
                                     a. xi > O,
                                     bo Xe t+ xr¢i ft... turer ak=1,2,...,N,
                         where %n + «= Xx.
                                                                                                        (Management Science, 1957).
                         24. Consider the more general problem of determining the minimum
                         of Ly (y) = ¥1 + ye + ... + yw subject to the constraints
                                             (a) yi 20
                                             (b) yi > 7, yn SS,
                                             (c)   v1 + ye > bi,
                                                   ye + Ys > be,
                                                   yn -1+ yn => bn -1.
                                                                                                                                                 137
                             EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                Write, for fixed 7, fy (s) = Min L (y), N > 2. Show that
                              fz (s) = Max (s + 7, di),
                              fv (s) = Min [2 + fw -1 (by -1—2) J,
                                      z> s*
              where s* = Max(s, 0).
                Show that
                                                            2,...,
                                                          1,
                                                       =
                                                      R
                                                  ve),
                                              ue,
                                            +
                                         (s
                                     Max
                                  =
                               (s)
                            fx
              where uw, and vx are functions of 7.
              25. Show that
                                     ux = Max (r + az, Br),
                                     Ve = Max (7 + yx, Ox),
              for k > 3, where
                                    Ak+1—=— Vk,
                                   Bu+1 = Ox,
                                   Ve +1 = Max (ax + bx, yx),
                                   Ox +1 = Max (Bx + Ox, Ox).
              26. Consider, in like fashion, the problem of minimizing Ly (x) = 2 x;
              subject to the constraints
                              a. x; > O,
                              b. x1 > x,
                               ©
                                 x1 + X22 > Y,
                                p.
                                 x1 + %2 + x3 > Oi,
                                 x2 + x3 + xa] > be,
                                 xn 2+ %nN 1+ %n > ON ~_2,
                                          XN -1 + %N > S,
                                                  XN >> T.
                                                              N
              27. Consider the problem of minimizing Ly (x) = & ci x; subject to the
                                                             i=1
              constraints
              138
                                         EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                   a.  x; > 0,
                                   b. 611 %1 + bie x2 > by,
                                       bee x2 + be3 x3 > be,
                                       by
                                           ~-1,N
                                                  ~-1%nN
                                                          ~1
                                                               +
                                                                  bn
                                                                      ~1,
                                                                           wxn
                                                                                 >
                                                                                     by
                                                                                         —1,
                                  C.
                                      ¥1
                                          >
                                              %, XN
                                                      SY.
                   Obtain the corresponding functional equation and the analogues of the
                   above results under suitable assumptions concerning the coefficients bij.
                   28. Let us suppose that we are given a map containing N distinct
                   locations numbered in some fashion 7 = 1,2,...,N, and a matrix
                   I’ = (ti) telling us the time required to travel from 7 to 7, with ti; = 0.
                   Starting at the first location, we wish to pursue a route which minimizes
                   the total time required to travel to the N* point, using any of the other
                   locations, and only these, as intermediary stops.
                      Letf; denote the time required to go fromz to N,1 = 1, 2,..., N— 1,
                   fw = 0, using an optimal policy. Show that
                                  fi = Min [43 + ff], = 1,2, ...,N —1.
                                           j
                   29. Show this equation has a solution {f;} unique up to an additive
                   constant.
                   30. Show that any one of these solutions suffices to determine the
                   optimal policy.
                   31. Consider the following approximation in policy space,
                                    AM =ty csr thspyise +... + tn 1,4,
                   for 7 = 1, 2,..., N —1, andlet the sequence {f;(*)} be defined by
                                  filet VD = Min [ti3 + ff],7 = 1,2,...,N—1,
                   k=1,2,....
                      Show that the vectors {f;.)} converge to a solution of the above
                   functional equation, and thus maybeusedtodetermine optimalpolicies,*
                                                                          2N                          2N
                   32. Consider the problem of maximizing » g; (xi) subject to X' x: <c,
                                                                          i=1                      i=1
                   x; > 0. Show that this is equivalent to maximizing fw (yi) + An (ya)
                   subject to y1, y2 > 0, v1 + ye = c, where
                   * R. Bellman, A. Routing Problem, Quarterly of Applied Mathematics, 1957.
                                                                                                              139
                                  EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                                          N
                                         fy (v1) = Max 2 gi (xi),
                                                      R, i=1
                                                          2N
                                       An (v2) = Max      2 gi (xi),
                                                   Rg  it=N+1
                and fi, Re are defined by
                                                        N
                                          Ry: x >0, Y x< yn,
                                                      i=1
                                                        2N
                                       Rei xi > 0,     LS    Ki < 2.
                                                    t=N41
                  What computational advantages are there in employing this technique
                and its natural extension? Discuss the multi-dimensional case.
                33. A gambler receives advance information concerning the outcomes
                of a sequence of independent sporting events over a noisy communi-
                cation channel. We assume that the outcome of each eventis the result
                of play between two evenly matched teams,and that # is the probability
                of a correct transmission, and g = 1 — f, the probability of incorrect
                transmission.
                  Assuming that the gambler starts with an initial amount x, and bets
                on the outcome of each event so as to maximize his expectedcapital at
                the end of N stages of play, show that he wagers his entire capital at
                each stage, provided that # > 1/2, and nothing if # < 1/2.
                34. Let us assume that the gambler plays so as to maximize the expected
                value of the logarithm of his capital after N stages. Assuming that
                he uses the same betting policy at each stage, determinethis ratio of the
                amount bet to the total capital.
                  (J. Kelly, ‘“A New Interpretation of Information Rate,’’ 1956, Symposium
                on Information Theory, Tvansactions I. R. E. 1956, pp. 185-189).
                35. Let us assume that the gambler plays so as to maximize the expected
                value of the logarithm of his capital after N stages. Let /n (x) denote
                the expected value obtained using an optimal policy. Show that
                    Jw +1(%) =     Max [pfw (% + y) + gfy (*—y)], n= 1,2,...,
                                  Osy<z
                assuming that there are equal odds, with
                            fi(x) =    Max [p log (x + y) + @ log (x —y) ].
                                      O<y<a
                  (For this and the following results, see R. Bellman and R. Kalaba, “On
                the Role of Dynamic Programming in Statistical Communication Theory”’,
                Transactions I. R. E., 1957.
                140
                                                   EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                        36. Show inductively that
                                                                 I(x) =logx+WNk,
                        where
                                               k==
                                                         Max
                                                                    [flog
                                                                              (1
                                                                                  +7)
                                                                                           +
                                                                                                qlog
                                                                                                        (1
                                                                                                            —7)
                                                                                                                     ],
                                                       O<r<il
                        and hence that there is a number 7» such that the optimal policy at each
                        stage is determined by the relation y = 7x.
                        37. Consider the time-dependent case where the probability of correct
                        transmission depends on the stage. Establish the corresponding functional
                        equation and deduce the structure of the optimal policy.
                        38. For the case where the purpose of the process is to maximize the
                        expected value of the return, or the logarithm of the return after NV
                        stages, the above analysis shows that the optimal policy is independent
                        of the quantity of resources available at each stage.
                            Consider the problem of determining the class of criterion functions
                        possessing this property. Let y (x) be a monotone increasing concave
                        function defined over 0 < x < oo, normalized by the condition q’ (1) = 1
                        and consider the one-stage process where we wish to maximize
                                                   Ey) = py(x + y) + (L—) v(x —9)
                        for O< y< x, where 1>                          > 1/2. Show that if for all x > 0, there is
                        a maximum of the form y = 7 (pf) x, then we must have
                                                                                 1
                                                                          yk +
                                                                           
                                                            VY (vy) =                +,k >—l,
                                                                         k+1
                       or, aS an extreme case,
                                                                   y (vy) = logy + ¢1.
                        39. Consider the case where successive signals are not independent. Let
                       the probability of a correct transmission at the k’” stage depend upon
                       the transmission of the signal at the (k — 1)s¢ stage. Define, for x > 0,
                       k=1,2,...,N
                                                  )
                       fr (x) = expected value of the logarithm of the final capital obtained
                                      from the remaining k stages of the original N-stage process,
                                      starting with an initial capital x, the information that the
                                      (k —-1)8* signal was transmitted correctly, and using an optimal
                                      policy.
                       gx (x) = the corresponding function in the case where the (k — 1)*
                                      signal was transmitted incorrectly.
                       Then
                       fe (x) =         Max [pn —e +1fe —-1(x + y) + (1 — pw — & +1) Be -1(% — y) J,
                                      O<r<l
                                                                                                                                        14]
                                                                                        EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                         ox (x) =                     Max |7N _xeeife -1(* + y) ++ (1 — IN _k +1) Lk _1(% — y)],
                                                               O<y<a
                                         where
                                                  px = probability of correct transmission of the kksignal if the
                                                                  (k — 1)s¢ signal was transmitted correctly.
                                                  gx = probability of correct transmission of the k¢* signal if the
                                                                  (k — 1)s¢ signal was transmitted incorrectly.
                                         Show that fz (x) = log x + an, gu (x) = log x + by. Determine a, and
                                         b,;      and the structure of the optimal policy.
                                         40. Consider the situation in which the channel transmits any of M
                                         different symbols. Upon receiving a symbol the gambler must make
                                         bets on what he believes the transmitted signal actually was. Assume
                                         that the gambler possesses the following information:
                                               pi; = the conditional probability that the j-signal was sent if the
                                                                 1-signal is received.
                                                  gi = the probability of receiving the 7-signal.
                                                  vy;    = the return from a unit winning bet on signal7.
                                         Assume that the gambler is free to bet an amount z; on the z*” signal,
                                         subject to the restriction that » z; < x. Defining the sequence{fn (x)}
                                                                                                                                       d
                                         as above, show that
                                                                                 M                                      M                                                                      M
                                                     fre(s) = Eqs Max | ¥ pufy 1 (4 +x—~ Ea) | D2
                                                                             t= 1              22,<24               lLj=1                                                                   s=1
                                                                                                  Zz,  20
                                                                                             M                                      M                                                                 M
                                                                  fi (x) = 2% qi Max | © pu tog ny tx— Za |.
                                                                                           t=1 22,<r¢blj=1                                                                                         s=]1
                                                                                                               z; 2 0
                                         Prove, as before, that fw (x) = log x + Nay, determine a, and the
                                         structure of the optimal policy. Show that the optimal policy is in-
                                         dependent of the qi.
                                         41. Consider the case in which there are a continuum of different signals.
                                         Let dG (u, v) = conditional probability that a signal with label between
                                         v and v + dv is sent if the u-signal is received.
                                               aH (u) = probability that a signal with label between uw and u + du
                                         is received at any stage.
                                               Show that the corresponding functional equations are
                                                                    f(x) = | | Max [- fw -1 (22 (v) ) dG (u, 0) | a (w)
                                                                                                 —oo                  z(v)          J—90
                                         142
                                 EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                       fi (x) = [        Max [- log (22 (v) ) dG (u, » | dH (u),
                assuming for the sake of simplicity that the odds are even, and that
                all money must be bet. The maximizationis overall functions satisfying
                                  a. 2(v) > 0,        b. [L- Z(v) dv = x.
                Obtain the form of fy (x) and the structure of the optimal policy.
                42. Consider the case where # itself is a random variable, subject to a
                known probability distribution.
                43. Consider the case in which the probability distrinution is unknown.
                We do, however, have an a priort estimate dG (fp), and agree, after k
                successful transmissions and / unsuccessful transmissions, that the new
                a priort estimate is to be
                                                   pr (1 — p)dG (p)
                                                   
                                      du(p) =
                                                  [oo(1 —p)dG(6)
                                                   0
                44, Several industrial plants are located along a river, numbered from
                north to south, 1, 2,...,N. A certain quantity of water flows down
                this river, to be allocated along the way to these plants. Assume to
                begin with that water allocated to a plant cannot be used by any other
                plants, and determine theallocation policy which maximizes the return
                to the community.                                                  (W. Hall)
                45. Consider the same problem under the assumption that a certain
                quantity of the water allocated to each industry returns to theriver,
                sometimes immediately, and sometimes several stages further down.
                                                                                   (W. Hall)
                46. Suppose that the waste products of each industry pollute the water,
                and the cost of using this water depends on the pollution level. Determine
                the optimal allocation policy in this case.                       (W. Hall)
                47. Suppose that the quantity of water available is seasonal, and that
                the demand is seasonal. Dams exist at various places along the river
                where water can be stored. Determine the optimal allocation policy.
                                                                                   (W. Hall)
                48. There are     different industrial plants whose construction along a
                river is being considered. The z¢” plant has production value v;, discharges
                waste products in quantity w,; into the river, and has a tolerance level &:,
                                                                                         143
                                            EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                     whichif the plant is to be utilized, must exceed the sum of the wastes
                     from the upstream plants. We wish to choose a subset of the » plants
                     to build along the river so as to maximize the economic value of the
                     plants.                                                                     (L. M. K. Boelter)
                        Show that this is a maximization problem over 2"”!. choices, which
                     can be reduced to [m!-e] — 1 choices.                                          (Gross—Johnson)
                     49. Show that any optimal solution can be reordered by increasing
                     values of ¢; + wi without loss of optimality, and thus that there are
                     fewer than 2” cases to consider.                                      (O. Gross-S. Johnson)
                     50. If vs = 1 for 1 = 1, 2, ...,, show that an optimal solution may
                     be found using the following procedure:
                        a. Order and renumber the items according to the magnitude of
                            ti + Wi.
                                                   i
                        b. Compute sj = 2 wi, and di = ti — Si -1.
                                                 j=l
                        c.  If dy <0 is the first violation, delete an item in the set :<k
                            whose w; is largest.
                        d. Recompute as in step (b) for the new set, and repeat steps (b)
                            and (c) until all violations are removed.                      (O. Gross—S. Johnson)
                    51. Show that in the general case an optimal solution has no greater
                    number of items than there are in the optimal solution of the same
                    problem with all the v; equal.                                         (O. Gross—S. Johnson)
                    52. Consider the problem of finding an approximate solution of the
                    equations f(x, y) =a, g(x,y) = b. Let {xz, ye}, R= 0,1,2,..., be a
                    sequence of guesses, and
                                         dy = (f(xn, yn) — a)* + (g (xn, yw) — 5)?.
                    Assuming that %o = ¢1, Yo = Ce, and that (vi +1 — xi)? + (vi +1 — va)?
                    <r*, fori =0,1,2,..., let for N=O0,1,2,...
                                                       In (c1, C2) = Min an.
                                                                        {z;, ¥;}
                    Show that
                                               fn +1 (C1, C2) = Min [fw (*1, V1) J,
                    where RF is the region determined by (x1 — ci)? + (yi — ce)? < 72.
                    144
                                                                                                                                                EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                                                                          53. Set x1 = c1 + 7 cos 6, v1 = co + rv sin 8 and assumethat 7 is a small
                                                                          quantity. Then
                                                                                       fn +1 (¢1, C2) = Min fw (cx + 7 cos 6, co + rv sin 8) J
                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                               = Min [fw (ci, ce) + 7 [cos 6 Ofnw/écy + sin 0 Ofn/éce] J.
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                          From this determine approximate values for cos @ and sin 8. What is
                                                                          the connection with the classical gradient method ?
                                                                          54. Consider the problem of determining the Cebycev norm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                       dy = Min Max |f(x) — 2X ce x*|.
                                                                                                                                                                                      e;         O<2<1                                                             x=0
                                                                          Discuss the convergence of the following scheme. Let {cx} be an initial
                                                                          approximation, and co’ determined as the minimum of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                      Max |f(x) — co — 2 c% x*|.
                                                                                                                                                               O<2z<1                                                                                  k=1
                                                                         The let c,’ be determined as the minimum of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NV
                                                                                                                                                   Max |f(x) — co’ — crx — 2 c% x*| ,
                                                                                                                                          O<2z<1                                                                                                                 k=2
                                                                         and so on.
                                                                         55. Suppose that we wish to send a rocket to the moon. Since there are
                                                                         questions of cost and engineering involved in carrying large quantities
                                                                        of fuel, and the containers for large quantities of fuel, we attempt to
                                                                         cut down on the quantity of fuel required and the size of the rocket by
                                                                         building a multi-stage rocket of the following type:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l~e—Nose Cone—>|
                                                               
                                                                                                          Third                                                                             Second                                                                         First
                                                                                                          Stage                                                                                 Stage                                                                       Stage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |~—__Sub—Rocket |——_—_—_—_——_»
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sub-Rocket 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                145
                                  EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                After the fuel carried in the last stage, the kt” stage is consumed, this
                stage drops off, leaving a (k — 1) stage sub-rocket, and so on.
                   The problem is to build a k-stage rocket of minimum weight which
                will attain a final velocity of v. Let
                        Wx: = initial gross weight of sub-rocket R.
                         Wx = initial gross weight of stage R.
                         pe = initial propellant weight of stage &.
                         V~ = change in rocket velocity during burning of stage k.
                Assume that the change in velocity vx 1s a known function of W, and
                pe, so that ve = v(We, px) and thus pr = f(We, ve). Since We =
                We —-1+ we, and the weight of the k** stage is a known function,g (px),
                of the propellant carried in the stage, we have
                                        We = ¢(P(We -1 + We, Ve) ),
                whence, solving for wx, we have
                                             We = W(We 1, Vx).
                   Let fe (v) denote the minimum weight of sub-rocket & achieving a
                terminal velocity of v. Then
                        fe(v) =     Min   [w(fe—1(v—vx), ve) +fe —1(v — vx) |,
                                 O0O<% Sv
                for k > 2, with
                                    fo(v) = Wo = weight of nose cone
                                          fi(v) =    Min    (w (Wo, vo) + Wo).
                                                   0<y4<v
                                                                             (R. P. Ten Dyke)
                56. Consider the problem of maximizing the linear form
                           3N
                [yn (x) = & x; over all non-negative x; satisfying the constraints
                          i=1
                A1y X%1 + Qi2 X%2 + G13 %3 << C1,
                dz X1 + Ao2 X2 + ez X3 < C2,
                a31 %1 + ase x2 + a33 %3 + 01 %4< 63,
                Day Xq + Uys Xsy + Aggy Xe <X Cy,
                Asa Xa + 455 X%5 + Ase Xe < Cs,
                Aen Xq + Ges X53 + Age Xe + 02%, < Cy,
                A3N —2, 3N —~2 %3N —~2 + G@3Nn —~ 2, 3N —1 X3N —~1 + G3N _2, 3N X8N CBN ~2,
                A3N —~1, 3N —~2%3nN ~2 + Q3n —1, 3N —1%3N —~1 + Qn —1, 3N X38N CBN ~1,
                a3N,3N —~2%3N —~2 + G3n, 3N —~1%3N ~1 + Q3N, 3N X8N << Can,
                and x; > 0, where aij > 0, b; > 0.
                146
                                       EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                     Define the sequence of functions
                                                  fw (2) = Max Ly(x),
                                                                2
                  where the x; are subject to the constraints given above with the exception
                  that the last constraint is now
                            A3N, 3N —~2 %3N —~2 + @3N, 3N ~1%3N —1 + G3Nn, 3N X8N < Z.
                  Show that
                  IN (z) = Max [%3n -~2 + %3n ~1 + %3Nn + fn —1l (can _3— bn _1%3n ~2)],
                      (an —2, 23N -1, TN]
                                                                                              N>1,
                  where %3n —2, ¥3n -1, ¥3n are subject to
                  A3N —2,3N —~2 X3N ~2 + G3n ~2,3N —1 %3N —1 + G3N —2,3N X8N — CBN ~2,
                  A3N —1,3N ~2 %3N ~2 + @3n —1,3N —~1X3N —1 —+ G3N ~1,3N%38N <Q CBN ~1,
                  A3N,3N ~2 %3n ~2 + Q@3Nn,3N —1 X3N —1 + 43N,3N X38N SX Z,
                  by -1%3N 2 << C3n ~3, Xi > O.
                  The function /o(z) is taken to be identically zero.
                  57. Obtain corresponding results for the case where the matrices are of
                  different order.
                  58. Consider the case where the 3k equation, k = 1, 2,..., has the
                  form
                  A3gk —~2,3k ~2%3k ~2 + Ase —2,3k ~1X3n —~1 + Ase —2, 3K X3k + bo X3k +1
                                                                    + CoXx3e+2 + doxsr+3 <i Car.
                  59. Show that the above functional equation can be reduced to the form
                        Jn (2) = Max [gn (xan ~2, 2) + fw -1 (Caw ~3 — On ~-1 Xan ~2) J,
                                   UsN—-—2
                  where x3n —2 Satisfies an inequality
                                        O<%3n-2< Min [an, 2/a3n, 3n —2] .
                  60. Consider the problem of resolving a set of linear equations of the
                  form
                           di1 X%1 + Gig %2 + G13 %3 = C1,
                           a21 %1 + ze X%2 + d23 %3 = C2,
                           a31 X1 + dase %2 + dss %3 + 01%, = Cs,
                  by X3 + Agg Xq + Aas X5 + Ang Xe                = C4,
                                                                                                       147
                              EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                     Asa X: + Ass Xx + Ase Xe      = Cs,
                      Aga Xq + Ags X5 + Age X%eq + 02%, = Cy
              by ~1 Xan ~3 + 4143N,1+3N %14+3N + 414+3N,2—8N X243N
                                                + @1+3N,3+3N %343N = C1 +43N
                             a2 +3N,1+3N %143N + @243N,24+3N %2+3N
                                               + @2+3N,3+3N %3+3N = C243N
                             a3 +3N,1+3N %1+3N + @343N,2+43N %243N
                                                + a3 +3N,3+3N X34+3N = C3 43N,
              where (aij) is a Symmetric matrix, and, in addition, positive definite.
                Linear systems of this type arise in the study of multicomponent
              systems where there is weak coupling between stages.
                The problem of solving this system is equivalent to that of determining
              the minimum of the inhomogeneous quadratic form
                          (x1, Ay x1) + (x?, Ao x?) + 2... 4 (x4, An x)
                       —2(c}, x1) — 2 (c?, x?) + 1... —2(c%, x¥)
                       + 2b, x3 x4 + 2 boxe x7 +... + 20Nn _1 Xan ~1 X8N ~2
              where the vectors x* and c* are defined by
                         x=(Xan 2, X3e —1, X3x), C¥ = (C3x —2, Cae -1, C3),
              and Ax = (ai +3%,5+3),1,7 = 1,2, 3.
                Show that the problem can be reduced to that of determining the
              sequence {fn (z)} defined by the recurrence relation
                   fn (2) =     Min      [ (*%, An XN) — 2 2x3gn — 2 (CN, x) +
                           (%3N) TaN —1) TaN ~ 2)
                                    +fn —1 (bn —1 Xan —2) J.
                                               (Illinois Journal of Mathematics, 1957).
              61. Show that this may be reduced to the form
                            Jw (2) = Min [gw (2, ¥) + fw -1 (dn -1) J,
                                      y
              where
                    gn (z,¥) =    Min    [ (4%, Aw xX) — 2 zxgn — 2 (CN, x9) |.
                               (23> Us— 1)
              62. Show that fn (z) = un + vn z + wn 22, where un, vn, WN are inde-
              pendent of z, determine the recurrence relations connecting (wy, vn, Wy)
              and (wy —1, Un —1, Wn —1), and thus determinethe solution of the linear
              system.
              148
                                             EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                      63. Consider the problem of determining the maximum of
                                                          N                       N—-1
                                           On (x) = 2 (x, Aix) +2 LY bi xsi x1 +33
                                                        i=1                       i=1
                     over the sphere Sy, x (x*, xt) = |,
                                                    i=1
                         Consider the associated functions of z defined by
                                                   fv (2) = Max [qn (x) + 2 2xsy] ,
                                                                 S
                                                                  N
                     and obtain the recurrence relation connecting fy (z) and fw —1 (2).
                     64. Generalize the foregoing results to the case where the matrices Ax
                     are not necessarily of the same dimension.
                     65. Obtain existence and uniqueness theorems under appropriate
                     assumptions for the following functional equations
                               a. f(p) = Min Max [g (6,9), f(7 (A, 9) ) J
                               b. f(p) = Min Max [¢ (A, 9), 4(6,9f(7 (6,9) )]
                              c. f(p) = Min Max [ g (A, 9), 7 (6,9) + i f (2) dG (2, p,9) J.
                                                q                                          R
                     66. Consider the problem of assigning m different types of machines to
                     n different tasks. Let Aij > 0 be the amount of task 7 performed by a
                     unit input of machine 7, and assume that
                               a.   If Aij > 0, and 2’ <1, then Ai; > 0.
                               b. If Aij > 0, and 7’ >7, then Ai > 0.
                               c.  [ft <1',7 <7’, Ai; > 0, then
                                      (Aiz/Aiz) < (Avy/Avi).
                        Let xi; be the quantity of machines of type z to be used for task 7.
                     The matrix x = (xij), 7 = 1, 2,...,m, 7 =1,2,...,m”, is said to be
                                                     n                                                       n
                    feasible      if   xy >O0, XY Ay xy = 7j,7 = 1,2,...,0,                          and 2 xi < Mi,
                                                  i=1                                                     j=1
                     1=1,2               mM.
                             d  .      J
                        Consider the following policy. Assign x11 up to the minimum of 71
                     and M,. If x1 = 71, then assign x12 = min (T2, M, — x11), and so on.
                     When ™M,is used upin this way, on the 7¢” task for some 7, assign %2; In
                     such a way that either task 7 is finished or all machines of type 2 are
                     assigned. Complete the assignment of machines in this way.
                        Show that if this policy does not lead to a feasible allocation, then
                     there exists no feasible policy.                              (Arrow—Markowitz—Johnson)
                                                                                                                        149
                                   EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                 67. Show that the above policy yields the solution of the problem of
                                      m
                maximizing Tn = 2 Ain Xin subject to
                                     i=1
                             a. » xyj= Mt = 1, 2, 1 M, XG > O,
                               j=l
                             b, 2 Ai xi = 1,7 = 1, 2, ...,n— I,
                               i=1
                provided that the Ai satisfy the above conditions.                    (Johnson)
                                                                           N
                68. Show that the problem of maximizing the sum 2 g; (x, yi) subject
                                                                         i=1
                to the constraints
                                         N
                             a. x1 > 0, XY x; = x,
                                        i=1
                                          N
                             bb y<iXy=y,
                                        i=l
                can, under appropriate assumptions concerning the functions g:(x, ¥),
                be reduced to the problem of maximizing
                                                 N                 N
                                         Sy = x gi (xs, Vi) —A LD iu,
                                              i=1                i=1
                subject to the constraints
                                          N
                             a. x; > 0, Oxi =X,
                                        i=]
                             b. yi > O.
                   This last problem leads to the recurrence relations
                      Jn (x) =    Max [ Max [gn (%n, ¥) —Ay] + fn-1(¥ —%n) ],
                                O<%,<@% y>2O0
                involving a one-dimensional sequence, for each fixed A.
                   How does one use the solution of this second problem to solve the
                original?                                         (Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., 1956).
                69. Each year the walnut crop consists of walnuts of different grades,
                say Gi, Ge, ...,Gx, in quantities 91, g2, ..., gx. Using various quantities
                of each grade, assortments of walnuts are put together for commercial
                sale at different prices. Assume that there are fixed demands d; for the
                atk assortment, and that each assortment mixes walnuts of different
                grades in its own fixed ratios. How many packets of each assortment
                should be made in order to maximize total profit ?
                70. Consider the case where the demand is stochastic with known
                distributions for each type of packet.
                150
                                 EXISTENCE AND UNIQUENESS THEOREMS
                            Bibliography and Comments for Chapter IV
                  § 1. This chapter follows R. Bellman, ‘‘Functional equations in the Theory
               of Dynamic Programming — I, Functions of Points and Point Transforma-
               tions,’ Trans. Amer. Math. Soc., vol., Vol. 80 (1955), pp. 51-71. An entirely
               different treatment of a more abstract type, making use of Tychonoff’s
               Theorem, is contained in an unpublished paper by S. Karlin and H. N.
               Shapiro,   “‘Decision Processes and Functional Equations.’’ The RAND
               Corporation, RM-933, Sept. 1952.
                  See also, S. Karlin, “The Structure of Dynamic Programming Models,”’
               Naval Research Logistics Quarterly, Vol 2 (1955), pp. 285-294.
                  § 6. A discussion of the importance of stability theory in the domain of
               differential equations may be found in R. Bellman, Stability Theory of
               Differential Equations, McGraw-Hill, 1952.
                  § 8. The choice of f, (p) in (8.6) is due to a suggestion of H. N. Shapiro.
                  § 9. This equation will be discussed in extenso in the following chapter.
                                                                                        151
                                                                                      CHAPTER V
                                                        The Optimal Inventory Equation
                                      § 1. Introduction
                                  In this chapter we wish to study a class of analytic problemsarising
                             from an interesting stochastic allocation process occurring in the studyof
                             inventory and stock control.
                                  Although the general equation seems to be quite difficult to treat, we
                             can obtain an explicit solution of a particular case where certain simple,
                             but not too far from realistic, assumptions are made, and wecan deter-
                             mine the structure of the optimal policy in some othercases.
                                 These explicit solutions are useful since they lay bare certain meaning-
                             ful combinationsof essential parameters. Since the inverse problem of the
                             estimation of parameters from observed data plays a critical role in this
                             theory, this is a feature which can be of importance.
                                  Furthermore, and this is a remark pertinent to all decision processes,
                             the analytic form of the solution will occasionally possess a simple eco-
                             nomic interpretation, which when verbalized, opens the way to the ap-
                             proximation of optimal policies for more complicated processes.
                                  \part from the results we obtain, the methods we employto investigate
                             the structure of optimal policies possess an independent interest. The
                             reader has already encountered them, in part, in § 12 of Chapter I, and
                             will encounter them again in a later chapter devoted to the calculus of
                            variations. What stands out quite vividly is the fact that the method of
                             successive approximations is not only useful in the production of exist-
                            ence and uniqueness theorems, to which relatively dull task it is usually
                            relegated, but is, in addition, a powerful analytic tool for the discovery
                            and proof of properties of the solution of a functional equation, and in
                            our case, for the determination of the behavior of optimal policies.
                                 Weshall begin with the formulation of a class of related problems oc-
                            curring in the study of “‘optimal inventory.’’ Following this, we devote a
                            section to the simple formal observation upon whichall the analysis in
                            this chapter hinges.
                                 Wethen consider a number of cases in which the optimal policy is
                                 1  This idea has, of course, been used extensively in the physical and engineering
                            world.                                                                                                                                       ‘
                            152
                                THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
              characterized in an especially simple and intuitive way, namely, by the
              maintenance of a constant “‘stock level’’. In particular, this is the case, in
              both the multi-dimensional as well as the one-dimensional case,if all the
              ordering costs are directly proportional to the amountsordered.
                If the initial ordering cost includesa fixed cost which is independentof
              the amount ordered, the problem seems to become very much more
              difficult. This fixed cost may represent a “‘red tape’ cost, or a “‘set-up”’
              cost, in the case of manufacturing processes. Weshall not treat any prob-
              lems of this type here, since at the present time practically no solutions
              of the corresponding functional equations exist, and very little seems to
              be known concerning the character of the optimal policies arising from
              processes of this morerealistic type.
                To illustrate further the method of successive approximations,we shall
              consider two processes, each variants of the relatively simple process
              discussed above. In the first, linearity is discarded, in that the cost is
              taken to be a convex function of the amount ordered; in the second, si-
              multaneity is voided, in that there is assumed to be a time-lagin satis-
              fying an order. Although the optimal policies cannot be described in
              simple terms, we can determine their general structure.
                From the mathematical point of view, we have to deal with a very in-
              teresting class of quasi-linear integral equations, nonlinear versions of the
              renewal equation which weshall discuss in an appendix. As usual, these
              nonlinear equations possess certain quasi-linear properties which we can
              occasionally use as handholds and footholds in making our way through
              this tortuous terrain.
                  § 2. Formulation of the general problem
                The problem weshall discuss here, in various masquerades, is one very
              particular case of the general problem of decision-making in the face of
              an uncertain future. The version we shall consider is concerned with the
              problem of stocking a supply of items to meet an uncertain demand,
              under the assumptions that there are various costs associated with over-
              supply and undersupply.
                The situation may be described as follows: At various specified times,
              determined in advance or dependent upon the process itself, we have an
              opportunity to order supplies of a certain set of items, where the cost of
              ordering depends naturally upon the numberordered of each item, and
              where there may or may notbe, in addition, somefixed costs, adminis-
              trative or otherwise, which are independent of the number ordered. At
              various other times, demands are made upon thestocks of these items.
             ‘The interesting case is that where these demands are not knownin ad-
              vance, but where we do knowthejoint distribution of the demands which
                                                                               153
                                                 THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                      can be made at any particular time. The incentive for ordering lies in a
                      penalty which is assessed whenever the demand for an item exceeds the
                      supply. Different penalties may be levied in different fields of activity.
                      A case which weshall treat in great detail is that where the penalty is
                      directly proportional to the excess of demandover supply. Its importance
                      lies in the fact that we can solve the functional equations arising from
                      the process explicitly under the crucial assumption that the cost of initial
                      ordering depends only upon the amount ordered, and is either a linear
                      function, or, more generally, convex.
                         Speaking loosely, we wish to determine the ordering policy at each
                      stage which will minimize some average function of the overall cost of the
                      process. In practical applications, an important aspect of the problem,
                      which weshall not discusshere,is that of determiningsuitablecriteria for
                      the various costs, which are both realistic and analytically malleable.
                         In the following subsections we shall consider various sets of assump-
                      tions which yield various functional equations, all of which belong to a
                      common family. Additional processes will be discussed in the exercises.
                            A. Finite total time period
                         The first process we shall consider involves the stocking of only one
                      item. Weshall assume that orders are made at each of a finite number of
                     equally-spaced times, and immediately fulfilled. After the order has been
                     made and filled, a demand is made. This demandis satisfied as far as
                     possible, with excess demand leading to a penalty cost.
                         Let us assume that we know completely the following functions:
                     (1)    a. m(s)ds = probability that the demand will lie between s and
                                s + ds.?
                            b. k (z) = the cost of ordering z items initially to increase the stock
                                level.
                            c.  p(z) = the cost of orderingz items to meetan excess, z, of demand
                                over supply, the penalty cost.
                     Observe that we assume that these functions are independent of time.
                     Furthermore, we suppose that these orders can befilled immediately.
                        Let x denote the stock level at the initiation of the process. Assuming
                     that there are 1 stages, we will order a quantity y, at thefirst stage, y, at
                     the second stage, and so on.
                        2  We shall avoid Stieltjes integrals throughout to simplify the discussion. It
                     will readily be seen that most of our results carry over to the more general situation
                     when suitable attention is paid to possible nonuniqueness of roots of equations.
                     This is left as a set of exercises, of nontrivial nature, for the reader.
                     154
                                             THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                       A set of functions (y, Yo, .--, Yn), Vk = Ve (x), Specifying for each k
                    the quantity yx to be ordered at the k'" stage when the stocklevelis x will
                    be called a policy. Corresponding to each policy, there will be a certain
                    expected total cost for this n-stage process, composed of initial ordering
                    and penalty costs.
                       The problem we set ourselves is that of determining the policy, or
                    policies, which minimize the expected total cost. A policy which yields
                    this minimum expected cost is called optimal. All this is in accordance
                    with our previous notation.
                       Weobtain an equally interesting but moredifficult class of problemsif
                    we attempt to minimize the probability that the cost exceeds a fixed
                    level.
                       At any stage, the problem is characterized completely by two state
                    variables, x, the supply of stock, and m, the numberof remaining stages.
                    Let us then define
                    (2)   fn (x) = expected total cost for an n-stage process starting with an
                                      initial supply x, and using an optimal ordering policy.
                       Let us now proceed to obtain a functional equation forfr (x). We have
                    3)                 Aly =ko—x+|” pls—y)pb) as,
                    if a quantity y — x > Ois ordered.
                       Although it may seem oddto order a quantity y — x, instead ofsayy,
                    it turns out that it is simpler to think of ordering upto a certain Jevel, y.
                    The optimal stock level turns out to be a more basic quantity than the
                    amount ordered.
                       Since y is to be chosen to minimize the expected cost, we see that/, (x)
                    is given by
                    (4)            fa (x)= Min[2 (y —2) +| (sy) p(s)as].
                    In general, for m > 2 we have
                   (5)             Jn(x) = Min (2 (y 2) +| p(s—y) @ (8) ds +
                                   fn~1(0)|p(s) ds + ["fu-1—5) p(s)a],
                   upon enumerating the various cases corresponding to the possibility of
                   an excess of demand over supply, and correspondingto the possibility of
                   being able to fulfill the demand.
                                                                                                                 155
                                    THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                     B. Unbounded time period—discounted cost
                   If we wish to consider an unbounded period of time over which this
                process operates, we must introduce some device to prevent infinite costs
                from entering.
                   The most natural such device is that of discounting the future costs,
                using a fixed discount ratio, a, 0 <a < 1, for each period, This possesses
                a certain amount of economic justification and a great deal of mathema-
                tical virtue, particularly in its invariant aspect.
                   If we set
                (6) f(x) = expected total discounted cost starting with an initial supply
                             x and using an optimal policy,
                we obtain, by the same enumeration of possibilities, in place of (5) the
                functional equation
                (7) f(x) = Min (k(y —x) +a [2 (s — y) p(s) ds + af(0) |» (s) ds
                                             +a|"f(y—s) p(s) ds].
                  The advantage of (7) over (5) is the usual one that it containsf(x), one
                function of one variable, in place of a sequence of functions, {fn (x)}.
                     C. Unbounded time period—partially expendable items
                  If we assume that some of the items supplied upon demand may be
                partially recovered, so that a demandof s itemsresults in a return of bs
                items, 0 < 6 < 1, which maybeused again, the analogueof(7)is
                (8) f(x) = Min [k(y—x) +a [p(s —y) p(s) ds +a |Fes\p(s)as
                                             +a|"fly—s + bs) 9(s) ds}.
                     D. Unbounded time period—one period lag in supply
                  Let us now assume that when weorder a quantity z it does not become
                available until one period later. If the current supply is x and y was on
                order from the period before, x + y will be available to meet the next
                demand. The functional equation corresponding to (7) is now of more
                complicated form
               (9)    f(x) = Min (et a | (s—x) (9) ds + af@) |p(s) ds
                              z->0
                                       +a]f(e—s+2)(9)ds).
                                                                  THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                             The quantity x now represents the total quantity available at any stage
                             to meet the demand.
                                      E. Unbounded time period—twoperiod lag
                                  If we have a two period lag, we require twostate variables to describe
                             the state of the process, namely,
                             (10)                        x == quantity of stock available to meet next demand,
                                                        y == quantity to be delivered one period hence.
                             Hence we define
                             (11)       f(x, y) = expected total cost with x and y as above, using an
                                                            optimal policy.
                             Thenf(x, y) satisfies the equation
                             (12)       f(x, y) = Min(May a |                                 p (s—2) p(s)ds + af, 2) | p(s) ds
                                                            z>0
                                                                             +a]fle—s+y,2)p(s) ds).
                                 Weshall not consider the equations in (8), (9), or (12) here, although
                             they are amenable to the same techniques of successive approximation
                             we shall apply to the others. There does not seem to exist any explicit
                             solution comparable in simplicity to that obtainable for (7).
                                      § 3. A simple observation
                                 In this section, we wish to present, in as simple a form aspossible, the
                             fundamental analytic property of functional equations of the form
                             (1)                                      u(x) = Mino (x, y), ve R (x),
                            upon whichall the subsequent work in this chapter depends.’
                                 In general, the variation will be over someregion, R (x), in this case, a
                            set of intervals, dependent upon x. Let us assume that over someinterval
                            of x-values, a < x < b, the minimumisattained inside the region (x),
                            andthat v is differentiable. Then at the minimizing value of y we have
                            (2)                                                             O = vy.
                                 This determines a function y (x), which need not be single-valued but
                            which we do assumedifferentiable.
                                 3  This property has already been used, without explicit remark in § 11 of
                            Chapter I.
                                                                                                                                                                     157
                                                         THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                             On any oneparticular branch of this function y (x), we have
                         (3)                                               u (x) = v(x, 9).
                         The crucial observation is now that for a< x < b, we have
                         (4)                                     u’ (x) = vz + vy dy/dx == vz,
                         since vy = 0, by (2).
                             Similarly, if
                         (5)               U (X14, X2) = Min [v (x1, %2, Va, Vo), (Vir Vo) ER (1, Xe),
                                                                 Yis V2
                         and we assume that the minimumis alwaysattained inside the region,
                         we have
                         (6)                                                  Ux = Uz,
                                                                                  1         1
                                                                              Ur = Uz,»
                                                                                  2
                         at the minimizing points.
                             Let us now apply these remarks to the functional equation ot (2.7),
                         under the assumption that & (z) = kz, k > O and $ (z) = 2, linear func-
                         tions of z. We have
                         (7)    f(x)= Min [ky— ke+a] p(s—y) p(s)ds+ af(0) | p(s) as
                                               y>o
                                                                        +a]fiy—s)@(s) ds].
                         If the minimum is attained at a point y > x, we haveat this point
                         (8)                   b—ap|”p(s) ds +a |"f(y—3)p(s) ds =0,
                         an equation independentof x!
                             Furthermore, for this value of y, we have
                         (9)                                               f' (x) =—k,
                             These two results, correctly combined and interpreted, furnish the clues
                         to the solutions of the problems involving proportional costs. Weshall
                         discuss them in more detail in later sections, and weshall also utilize their
                         multi-dimensional analogues.
                                § 4. Constant stock level—preliminary discussion
                             In this and the next few sections we shall consider several processes
                         characterized by the principle of ‘“‘constant stock level.’’ The commonfea-
                         ture of these models is the assumption that the costof initial ordering is
                         158
                                             THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                    directly proportional to the amount ordered, and that the distribution
                    of demand remains the same from stage to stage. The addition of an
                    administrative fixed cost, “‘red-tape’’ cost, changes the nature of the
                    optimal policy in an essential manner.‘ This cost may also represent “‘set-
                    up’’ cost in manufacturing processes.
                        In § 5, we shall obtain the complete solution, for an arbitrary distribu-
                    tion function @ (s), for the case where the penalty cost is also directly
                    proportional to the numberordered. In § 6 we extend this result to the
                    multi-dimensional case, and show that the solution for the case where
                    there are many items subject to a joint distribution of demand possesses
                    the very important property of sub-optimality.
                       Turning from the consideration of these processes involving unbounded
                    time intervals, we consider the finite process described in § 2 and show
                    that again the assumption of direct proportionality entails a principle of
                    constant stock level at each stage. This level, of course, changes with the
                    stage.
                       This section serves as an excellent introduction to the use of successive
                    approximations as an analytic tool in the study of these functional equa-
                    tions.
                       Weenter territory where the going is much rougher when we con-
                    sider the case where the penalty cost includes a “‘red-tape”’ term which is
                    independent of the amount ordered. The form of the solution now seems
                    in the general case to depend upon the form of the demand function.
                    Nevertheless, several important classes of distribution functions fall
                    within catagories which we can handle precisely.
                       Finally, we indicate briefly the form of the general solution without,
                    however, being able to make any constructive use ofit.
                          § 5. Proportional cost—one-dimensional case
                       In this section we present the solution of the case where both cost
                    functions, direct ordering and penalty ordering, are directly proportional
                    to the amounts ordered.
                    THEOREM 1. Consider the equation
                    (1)  f(x) = Min[k(y—x)+a |"p(s —s) p(s) ds + af0) [p(s) ds
                                                        +4|"Fo—s)p(s) ds].
                    where we 1mpose the conditions
                       4 In the sense that it changes the policy from one of known form to one of
                   unknown form.
                                                                                                                 159
                                                                                                                                                                 THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                                                                       (2)                                          a.                   kand p> are positive constants,
                                                                                                                                        y (s) >0, {p(s ds=1, |” s@(s) ds <oo,
                                                                                                                            o
                                                                                                                    c O<ac<l,
                                                                                                                     d.                  ap>k.
                                                                                  Let x be the unique root of
                                                                          3                                                                                k=ah ~ (s) ds + ak ”                                                                                                                                     w(s)        ds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                      y                                                                                     oO
                                                                       Then the optimal policy has theform
                                                                      (4)                                                                                                             a.                 forO<x<x%,y=x,
                                                                                                                                                                                       b.                forx> x, y=xX.
                                                                      In other words, the optimal stock level ts x.
                                                                                 If ap < k, the solution 1s given by y = xfor x > 0, 1.e. never order.
                                                                      ProoF. In order to understandthegenesis of this solution, let us proceed
                                                                      heuristically. If we can obtain a plausible solution by some formal means
                                                                      and then verify directly that it satisfies the equation in (1) above, the
                                                                      uniqueness theorem established in § 9 of Chapter IV tells us that itis the
                                                                      solution. Let us point out, however, that themethodofsuccessiveapprox-
                                                                      imations would haveled us to this solution in a systematic fashion.
                                                                                 Aspointed outin § 3, if the minimum occurs at y > x, the minimizing
                                                                      values of y must be roots of the equation
                                                                      (6)                                           kt al—p[@ast["Fy—s)p(s)ds] =0,
                                                                     and at this value of y we have
                                                                     (6)                                                                                                                                             f'() =—k.
                                                                                 Nowlet us pull ourselves up by our bootstraps. If the solution has the
                                                                     conjectured form, the complicated term, |, fT’ (vy — s)q(s) ds may be
                                                                     replaced by the simpler term — k |, y (s) ds, so that equation (5) may
                                                                     be replaced by
                                                                                ®       The interpretation of this equation is that the run-out probability must be
                                                                     set at the level where the marginal cost for holding inventory is just balanced
                                                                     by the marginal penalty for run-out.
                                                                     160
                                                                                                                                            THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                                                              (7)                                                             b—ap |” p(s) ds—ak |" o(s) ds= 0,
                                                             precisely the equation of (3).
                                                                       Since [- gy (s) ds = 1, this equation reducesto
                                                             (3)                                                                                 |, p(s)                                         = (ap —b)a (pb — 2),
                                                             which possesses exactly one root under the assumption that @ (s) > 0.
                                                             Observe that the limiting cases behave properly. If ab —k = 0, y = 0,
                                                             ifa=ly=ojsitf=w,y=oo.
                                                                       Having determined x, we proceed to determine f(x) as follows. For
                                                             O<x<xwehave
                                                             (9)                      f(x) = kR—x)+ aL [> p(s—R els) ds +400) [= p(s) ds
                                                                                                                                                                             + [*F@—9) (9) 45],
                                                             andf’ (x) = — &,or,
                                                             (10)                                                                                                           f(x) =f(0)— ke.
                                                             Substituting (10) in (9), and setting x = 0, we obtain the following result
                                                             for f (0)§,
                                                                                                                         kx + pa [- (s — x) w (s) ds — ak                                                                                                                        (#—s) 9 (s) ds
                                                                                                                          
                                                            (11)                        (0) =                                                                                                                         ta
                                                                      To determinef(x) for x > x? we have the equation
                                                            (12)                                     fl) =al[a(s—ael) ds +f |gl) ds +
                                                                                                                                                                            |,fe—9e(s) ds]
                                                            which wewrite in the form
                                                            (13)                                                                     f(x) = ule) +a |"Fe—s) pls) ds,
                                                                      6      Note that the % we obtain from (7) is the value of ¥ which minimizes this
                                                            expression for f (0).
                                                                      7      Observe that as far as applications are concerned, this part of the solution
                                                            is of very little interest, since for only one initial interval, if at all, will x ever
                                                            exceed %.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 161
                                    THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                where u (x) 1s a known function of x. This, in turn, we write
                (14) f(x) =u (sy+a] fle—s)piydsta |"_fe—s) p(s) ds.
                In the interval {x — x, x], f(x — s) is known, hence we may write, com-
                bining the w (x) term and the second integral
                                                  L-
                (15)         fx) =o)+a"               “fe—sel)ds, «=x
                If we now set x — x = z and f(x + z) = g (z), we see thatg (z) satisfies
                the equation
                (16)       g() =o +2) +4]ge—sp(s)as, z>0,
                a simple renewal equation whose properties are discussed in the appendix.
                  Actually, it is much simpler to differentiate (12) first and then proceed
                as above. Let us observe, parenthetically, that it seems to be a general
                characteristic of functional equations in the theory of dynamic program-
                ming that the derivatives satisfy simpler equations, and are the more
                basic quantities. This is due to the fact that they represent ‘“‘marginal
                returns’, or “‘prices’’, which in purely mathematical language means
                that they represent Lagrange multipliers. This, in turn, is connected with
                the general problem of constructing dual processes, a subject we shall not
                pursuehere.
                  Let us now turn to a proof that the conjectured solution is actually
                a solution. Call the function obtained above F (x) and denotethe constant
               f(0) determined in (11) by C. Then F (x) is completely determined by
                the following equations.
                (17)   a.   F(x) =C—khe, 0x<x
                       b.        =a[|p(s—x*ols                   F (0) | 9 (s
                                     + [°F(x—s) 9 (s)ds], x =X,
                                        « O
                  An essential point in our verification of the solution is the fact that
               F(x) + kx is strictly increasing for x > 0. This weestablish as follows.
               From (17b), we see that
               (18)      FF" (x) = — ap [o dsta|'F (x — s) y (s) ds,
               162
                                    THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                for x > x. In [x — x, x], we have 0 < x —s < x and hence F’ (x —s) =
                —k, as we see from (17a). Thus for x > x.
                (19) F’ (x) =—ap |" p(s) ds—ka [; pidstal”"F(x—s)g(s)ds,
                Or
                (20)        F(x) + k= (k—ap |© p(s) ds—ak |" (9) ds
                                      +a[UF(xs) +Rk](s) ds.
                                            0
                   The expression
                (21)          u(x) = k—ap |” p(s) ds—ak |“ p(s) ds
                is zero at x = x andpositive thereafter. Setting « — x = z and F’ (x + 2)
                + k = g(z), we see that g (z) satisfies the equation
                (22)       g (2) = ule t+2) + |" ges) p(s) ds,z 0.
                It follows, cf.p.177f,    that g(z) >0 for z > 0.
                   Hence, F’ (x) + k > 0 for x > x, and F (x) + kx is strictly increasing
                for x > x.
                   Let us now return to the problem of demonstrating that F (x) satisfies
                the equation in (1). Consider first the case where x > x. Then
                (23)                F (x) = Min [           toe          ]
                                              yz
                                          = Min [k(y —x) + Fly) ],
                                              y>x
                using the representation in (17b). Since ky + F (y) > kx + F (x) for
                y > x, we see that the minimum occurs at y = x, yielding F (x), as
                desired.
                  Now consider the interval 0< x < x. Write
                                                      Min     [       ]
                (24)                 Min = Min|      *%=*
                                     you              Min   [        |
                                                  Lzr>ye2              _!
                As above, the minimum over y > x reduces to the value at y = x.
                Hence
                (25)                Minf...J= Min [...]
                                   y2u                E>zYyYSer
                Since F (x) = C —kx for O< x <x, it follows that the minimum is
                assumed at y = X, as in theoriginal derivation of the value of x.
                                                                                          163
                                              THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                        In the case af < k, taking x = 0 in (17) yields an F whichis easily
                    seen to satisfy (23), since, as above, F (y) + ky is non-decreasing.
                        This completes the proof. It is interesting to note that the solution for
                    0O< x < x, the most important part of the solution, can be found without
                    reference to the form of the solution for x > x.
                        This completes the verification of the fact that F (x) is a solution, and
                    consequently the solution, within the class of uniformly bounded func-
                    tions over x > 0.
                           § 6. Proportional cost—multi-dimensional case
                        Let us now consider the multi-dimensional version of the problem.
                    Here we have N items whosestock levels will be denoted by x, %2, ..
                                                                                                                        °>
                    xn, and whose demand(s, So, ..., Sn) at any time is subject to a joint
                    distribution function whose density is @ (51, Ss, ..., Sn).
                        In formulatingthefunctionalequation for the functionf(x, %), ..., Xn),
                    the minimum expected over-all discounted cost, let us, for the sake of
                     simplicity, consider only the two-dimensionalcase.
                        The remarkable fact that emerges is that the form of the solution is
                     precisely the same as if @ (Sj, So, ..-, Sn) had the form q,(S,) @» (Se) ...
                    Qn (Sn), i.e. uncorrelated demands. It is this which yields the important
                     sub-optimalization property of the solution which we discuss below. An
                    enumeration of cases yields the following functional equation forf(x, %2):
                     (1)   fi(%1, %2) = Min [Ra (Vi — %1) + Re (V2— Xe) + at] [- [Pi (Si — V1)
                                                                                + Do (Sz — ¥2)] @ (Si, Se) ds, AS»
                                                                                          dsy
                                                                                     ds,
                                                                                Sg)
                                                                           (S1,
                                                                         @
                                                                      ”
                                                              [-
                                                          0)
                                                      (0,
                                                    f
                                                +
                                                                Y,   JY;
                                                                                                               dso
                                                                                                          dsy
                                                                                                     Sa)
                                                                                               (sy,
                                                                                           —
                                                                                         |
                                                                                     Se)
                                                                                —
                                                                            Vo
                                                                       (0,
                                                                    f
                                                                +
                                                          y:)
                                                     —_
                                                 (Sy
                                           lpi
                                      {"
                                in
                           +
                                                                                                      dS»
                                                                                                 ds,
                                                                                            Se)
                                                                                       (Sy,
                                                                                    ~
                                                                                   ]
                                                                               V2)
                                                                           —
                                                                       (So
                                                                   Po
                                                               +b
                                                           O)
                                                       $j,
                                                   —
                                           [f(y
                                       -
                                [
                           +
                                  Yr    Ye
                           + |             f(V1 — Sus Va — 52) @ (Sz, S2) ds, dso]
                        Let us simplify our notation a bit by setting  (s,, s,) ds; dsz =
                     dG(s,, S,) andcallthe quantitywithin thebrackets K(y,, 2). We then have
                                        ok                               co      ef
                     y                  stathffaebus))
                     164
                                               THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                                                      “Of
                                                                                      °°
                                                      YY   Ye Of
                                               +
                                                   |
                                                         |
                                                               =
                                                                    (yy
                                                                         —
                                                                             Sy,
                                                                                 Vo
                                                                                     —
                                                                                         Ss)
                                                                                             dG
                                                                                                  (Sy,
                                                                                                       Ss)
                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                            ’
                                                     Oo    Oo  OYv1
                                        cK,                             [, [od
                                        oy, 2t+al—py                                _       (Si, Se)
                                               +
                                                   [Pe
                                                               0,
                                                                   Ve
                                                                      —
                                                                           So)
                                                                                  fa
                                                                                             dG
                                                                                                  (Sy,
                                                                                                       So)
                                                                                                           )
                                                                                       i=Yy
                                                      y,   ¥2 0
                                               +
                                                   i
                                                         i
                                                               oo
                                                                    (15
                                                                                 Ye
                                                                                     —
                                                                                       Se)
                                                                                             dG
                                                                                                  (Sy,
                                                                                                       Se)],
                     Furthermore, as above, if y,; > %,, Ve > %2, we have
                                                       of                 of
                                                                 YB,
                                                       ax,
                     (3)
                        Consequently, if we assume that the solution here has the same form
                     as in the one-dimensional case, the critical levels x, and x, are given as
                     roots of the equations
                     (4)  a.  mtal—afo([aeSisSo)—Fy{"(fodG(s1,53)))=0
                          b. betal—pl ({- dG (5,, 8»)apfra(54,$))] =0
                                                   x,      S, = 0
                        These roots exist and are unique provided we make the same assump-
                     tions as above, namely, ap, > k,, af, > ko, and dG > 0.
                        We see that x, depends for its determination only upon the condi-
                     tional distribution |             dG (sy, $2), and similarly to determine x, we require
                                                 S,= 0
                     only           AG (Sj, So).
                              8,=0
                        This is the important property of suboptimalization mentioned above.
                        The verification of the solution follows precisely the samelines as that
                     for the one-dimensional case, and hence will be omitted, since the details
                    are, of course, much moretedious.
                        Let us state our conclusion as
                    THEOREM2. Letusimtosethefollowing conditions upon the equation in(1):
                    (5)           a.    ki and p; are positive constants,
                                  b.    go > 0, [- i gy ds, ds, = 1, i | Sig ds, dSz <00
                                  c O<ac<l,
                                        api > ki,
                                                                                                                       165
                                                                                                         THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                                                      Let x; be the unique root of
                                               (6)            ki = api [- fo@(Sy,Se) dSg) ds;—ak; I (|e                                                                                                                           @ (Sy, S2) ASy) ds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S$,  -=0
                                               Then the optimal policy has theform
                                               (7)                                                                  a.          forO< xi < Xi, Vi = X;
                                                                                                                    b.          for xi > Xi, Vix XxX
                                               In other words, the optimal stock levelfor the 1” item 1s Xj.
                                                      If api < ki for any 1, we set xi = O(1 = 1, 2).
                                                      It is clear that this form of the solution extends immediately to the
                                               N-dimensionalcase.
                                                             § 7. Finite time period
                                                      Let us now consider the corresponding problem for a finite process
                                              where we do not discount future costs. We now wish to minimize the
                                               total expected cost.
                                                     Wedefine
                                              (1)            fw (~) = expected cost over an N-stage period starting with an
                                                                                         initial quantity x and using an optimal N-stagepolicy.
                                              Then
                                              (2)           fi, (x) = Min[k(y —x) + 4 [- (s — y) » (s) ds]
                                                                                       Yoru
                                                            fins (x) = Min (k(y — x) + p|- (s — y) p(s) ds +fa (0) [- pisyas
                                                                                               yor
                                                                                                                                              + [fy—5)p(s) ds. n= 1, Qo.
                                             We wish to prove, under the natural assumption ~ > k,
                                             THEOREM 3. For each n, the optimal policy has theform
                                             (3)                                                                         a.          for x<%n, VY = Xn,
                                                                                                                         b.          for x > xn, VY = x
                                             where the sequence Xn 1s monotone increasing in Nn.
                                             Proor. The proof will be inductive. We have, withf, (x) defined as in
                                             (2), as our critical stock level the solution of
                                                                                                                                                                                 ds
                                                                                                                                                                        (s)
                                                                                                                                                                 gy
                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                                k=pfp
                                             (4)
                                             166
                                     THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                which,if it exists, is unique, and which doesexist if p > R, as is reason-
                able. Call this value x,. It is clear then that for 7 = 1, the optimal policy
                isy= x, for x <x; y = x for x > x,. When y = x, we have f’, (x) =
                ~-k, and for x > x,, we have
                (5)                   f(x) =? [- (s — x) »(s) ds,
                                      f'i)=—p |pas=—k,
                                      f(x) =peplx) > 0.
                Hencef’; (x) + k > Oforallx > 0.
                   Consider the case n = 2. We have
                (6)  falx) = Mini (y—2) + 9 |(s—welsds +A | pls) as
                                                + |"AW—sp(s)as].
                   Thecritical value of y is attained by setting the partial derivative with
                respect to y equal to zero,or
                7             k=p[>ei) ds—["f'O—S)p(s) ds = FAG),
                The function F, (vy) has the derivative
                (8)    F's (y) = — Pe (y) —fr(0) ¢ yy) — i fi" (vy —s)  (s) ds.
                Since f,” > 0, f + fi’ (0) > + fi’ (0) = 0, we see that F, (y) is mono-
                tone decreasing, and there can be at most one root of (7). However,
                F, (0) = p > hk, F, (ow) = 0. Hence thereis precisely one root. Call this
                root %>.
                   The policy is then
                (9)                        Vy = Xo,     Omx<Xp,
                                           y= xX,       Xe <x.
                   The geometric picture is illuminating. Write (6) in the form
                (10)                       Fo (x) + kx = Min v (y),
                                                           Nora
                where v (y) is a known function. From what we have demonstrated above,
                v (y) has the following graph
                                                                                             167
                                                                                                                                            THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                                                                                                                                  Nae
                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Figure 1
                                                                       The function /, (x) ++ kx is obtained by drawing the tangent to v (y)
                                                             at y = x, and continuingit to the left until it hits the v-axis. The func-
                                                             tion f, (x) + kx is now constant for 0< « < x, and equal to v (x) for
                                                             X >> Xo.
                                                                                                       fo(x)+kx
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Of
                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                           XN
                                                                                                                                                                XN
                                                                                                                                                                     “‘
                                                                                                                                                                           “
                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                      ~~“
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Xo
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 2
                                                                      It remains to show that x, > x,. The quantity x, is determined by
                                                            equation (4), while x, is determined by (7). Since —f,’ > 0, it follows
                                                            that the curve
                                                            1)                                           w =H) =P |p)ds—|"A’y—seds
                                                            always lies above the curve
                                                            (12)                                                                                   w=oily) =p [- yp (s) ds,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 w=g,(y)
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                    w=k~——
                                                                                                                                                                   eeee
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                            0                                                   x,                                      y                          Xp                                                                            °
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Figure 3
                                                           168
                                THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
              From this it is clear the x, > xy.
              In order to continue this proof inductively, we must show that
              (13)                  —fr’ (x) > —fi' (x).
              Wehave
              (14)                  —fii (x) =kh,O<mxe<x
                                    —fii (x)= [- p(s) ds,x > x,
              and
              (15)     —fe (xy) =kh,O<xe< x,
                               =>[-y(s) ds — | fi’ («—s) p(s) ds, x > %.
                In the intervals [0, x,] and [x, co], the inequality is clear. In [x,, x6],
              the inequality follows from the monotonicity of k— |” @ (s) ds, which
              is zero at X = %).
                Finally, we wish to demonstrate the convexity off, (x). This is clearly
              true in [0, x2]. In [x,, co], we have, using (15)
              (16)   A)=bee) +AOe)+ |*Ae—5)(9)ds.
              Since f,’ (0) + p > 0, fy” > 0, we havef,” (x) > 0.
              Wenowhaveall the ingredients of an inductive proof.
                  § 8. Finite time—multi-dimensional case
                The hardy reader may verify that the solution in the multidimensional
              case has precisely the same general character.
                  § 9. Non-proportional penalty cost—red tape
                As soon as we consider the case where the penalty is not directly
              proportional to the excess of demand over supply, we encounterdifficul-
              ties, and it appears that the simple and elegant solution obtained for the
              case of proportional cost is no longer valid generally.
                There are, however, a number of interesting cases in which westill
              obtain a solution involving constant stock level. The most interesting of
              these occur when wetakethecost of ordering (s — y) to be p (s — y) + 4,
              where g is a fixed administrative cost which appears whenever an excess
              demand occurs, regardless of the amount of the demand. The initial
              orderingcostis still assumed to be proportional.
                                                                               169
                                                                                                                                           THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                                                                       Let us then consider the equation
                                                             (1)                f(x) = Min[k(y—x) +a[- (p (s—y) +glp(s) ds +f(0) [osds
                                                                                                                                                                                        + [Fo—s)p(s) as),
                                                             distinguished from the equation we have considered above only by the
                                                             additional term aq |~ gy (s) ds. It is surprisinghowmuchcomplicationthis
                                                                                                                                                  y
                                                             innocuous-appearing expression would seem to introduce.
                                                                      Weshall, to begin with, proceed formally on the assumption that there
                                                             is a constant stock level solution. The critical level is then determined by
                                                             the solution of
                                                             @)                  O=k+al—p|"p(s) ds—goy) + [FO—s)9) asl,
                                                            and we havef’ (x) = — kwheny > x.
                                                                      It follows then that x will be a root of
                                                            (3)                                O=k+al—p|”p(s) ds—goly)—& |9s) ds
                                                                      Unfortunately,it is not true that this equation has a uniquerootforall
                                                            density functions  (s). This equation may be written in the form
                                                            (4)                                                        (1 —a) k =a(p—-h) [eo ds + aq (y).
                                                            Asimple condition underwhichthisequationhasauniquerootIsq’(y) <0.
                                                                      If we do assumethat this equation has a uniqueroot, the proof is almost
                                                            exactly as before. There is, however, a more general result where the
                                                            optimal policy is that of constant stock level, which we shall now discuss.
                                                                   If the equation above,(3) or (4), does not possess a uniqueroot, it may
                                                            still happen that the largest root of (4) corresponds to an absolute mini-
                                                            mumof the function in the brackets in (1), over the interval(0, <x].
                                                                      Thus the picture may be
                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                     0                                             x                                      y                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Figure 4
                                                            170
                               THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                Let us prove
              THEOREM 4. Under the assumptions upon a,k, p,q and q(s), stated tn
              Theorem 1, and the additional assumptionthat the last minimum of
              (6) yp) =ky + al [- [Pp (sy) + 9] p(s) ds —k |; (y — s)  (s) ds
              ts the absolute minimum in 0 < y < oo, the optimal policy in (1) ts given
              by the rule
              (7)                 (a)  y=4x,forO<x<x,
                                       y= X,forx > x,
              where x is the value ofy where the absolute minimum1s attained.
              ProoFr. Let x be the value of y which yields the last minimum, and the
              absolute minimum in the interval [0, co], of the function yp (y) above.
              Then, precisely, as in the case where g = 0, we have f(x) = f(0) — kx
              in 0< x < x, andf(0) is determined by substituting this result in (1), in
              the range 0 < x < x. In the interval [x, oo],f (x) is determined bysetting
              y = x in (I).
                The proof that f(x) actually satisfies the equation now continues in
              exactly the same way as in the case where g = 0.
                  § 10. Particular cases
                Some particular cases where the above conditionsare satisfied are
              (1)             fa)  p(s) ere]Fewdu
                              (b)  p(x) = be
                Weleave the verification as exercises for the reader.
                  § 11. The form of the general solution
                Letf(x) be the solution of (9.1), which is to say
             (1)                   f(x) +kx = MinF iy),
                                                YR
             where
             2)   Fy) =ky+alp |”s—ypas +(f0) +9) |p(s as
                                    + [FO—9)@() as]
                                                                             171
                                                                                                                                          THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                                                            Let F (y) have the graph
                                                            (3)
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 5
                                                                      Then, the optimal policy has the following form
                                                            (4)                                                                                                     (a2)                 y=x,0<Ke*<yX,
                                                                                                                                                                    (b)                  y=4%, my lXS XK,
                                                                                                                                                                    (c)                 y = %3,%, <x < Xz,
                                                                                                                                                                    (d)                  y=x,%x% > Xz,
                                                            and
                                                            (5)                                                                                    f(x) + kx =
                                                                      However, the problem of determining how manydifferent regions exist,
                                                            given the cost functions and the demand functions, and howto fit this
                                                            information together, seems quite difficult, and is unsolved at the present
                                                            time.
                                                                                § 12. Fixed costs
                                                                      Let us now consider the case where there is a constant red-tape cost in
                                                            initial ordering. This problem is also unsolvedto date.
                                                                      The equation now has the form
                                                            (1)                        f(x) =Min[A(y—x) +g (y—2) +at |” p(s —y) p(s) ds
                                                                                                                        y¥zu
                                                                                                                     +£O," es) as + |"So—s)ebyasi),
                                                             172
                                                                                                                                                 
                                    THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                where
                (2)                            g(x) =g,x >0
                                                    =O,x = 0.
                Here g represents the fixed cost.
                   It is tempting to envisage a solution of the following form
                (3)                          y=Sfor0O<*<s
                                                =xfors<xXx
                where 0 <s < S < oo. A policy of this type is called an ‘“‘sS-policy.”
                   Policies of this type are used in variousestablishments, and havea fine
                intuitive flavor. Unfortunately, it is easy to construct relatively simple
                examples which show thatthis policy cannot be optimalin all cases, and
                there the matterrests.
                     § 13. Preliminaries to a discussion of more complicated
                            policies
                   In the previous sections we have considered some processes having
                solutions of quite simple and intuitive form. We now wishto consider two
                cases in whichthe solutions are of a more complicated nature. Thefirst of
                these will be one involving a time-lag in thefulfilling of orders, the second
                will treat the case where the initial ordering function is a non-linear
                convex function of the amount ordered, with no red-tape cost in either
                case.
                   In both cases weshall employ the methodof successive approximations
                to determine the properties of the solution.
                     § 14. Unbounded process—one period time lag
                   The functional equation weshall consideris that derived in § 2, namely
                (1)   fl) = Min [ke + al]p(s—a) p(s) ds +F@) |ols) ds
                               z>0
                                        + |" fe—s +2) 963) 51]
                   Weshall prove
                THEOREM 5. The optimal policy 1s given by the rule
                (2)                         z= 2(x)forO<x*<x
                                            z= 0,forx<x,
                where z(x) > Oandz(x) = 0.
                                                                                             173
                                                                                                                                                THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                                                                          Thisfunction z (x) 1s monotone decreasing in x.
                                                                ProoF. The proof will proceed by induction, based upon the following
                                                               sequence of successive approximations
                                                               (8)fale) =al |b(s—a)p(s) ds-+fol0)|p(s)ds|"fole—s)(9) 45],
                                                               (a function we have repeatedly encountered before), and for ” = 0, 1,
                                                                     ,     ©     e    %y
                                                               (4)                                                                                                fn +1(*) = Min T (2, x, fr),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    z>0
                                                               where T (z, x, fn) is the expression contained within the brackets in(1).
                                                                         Let us now consider T (z, x, fy) as a function of z, say M,(2).
                                                               We have
                                                               (5)                  M,’ (z) =k+ fy’ (2) [- g(s)ds +a [#0 (x —s + 2) p(s) ds,
                                                               and the second derivative is
                                                               (6)                            M,” (2) = af,” (z) [- m(s)ds +a [an (x —s + 2) (s) ds.
                                                                          Since fy” > 0, we see that M,” (z) > 0 for all x > 0. Hence the equa-
                                                               tion M,’ (z) = Ohas at most oneroot in z for any x. For large ~,1t 1s clear
                                                               that there will be no root, and for small x, say x = 0, there will be a root
                                                               provided that a, p and & are properly related, a point we will check sub-
                                                               sequently. Meanwhile, let us show that this root, which we call z, (x) is
                                                               monotone decreasing in x.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       so
                                                                         To show this consider the expression Gy (x, z) == — af,’ (2) |                                                                                                                                                                                                               p(s) ds —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                               a |.fo (x —s + 2) (s) ds, as a function of x for fixed z. Its derivative
                                                               with respect to x 1s
                                                                                                                                       0G»                                                           x
                                                                                                                                       
                                                               (7)                                                                                          =—a]                                           f."(x—s +2) (s) ds,
                                                                                                                                         OX                                                        0
                                                               which is negative. Hence, the family of curves w = G,(x, z) looks as
                                                               follows
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W=G,(0,z)
                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                            w=Go(x,z)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            —~S_
                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                            oO                                                             Z                                                       ©
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Figure 6
                                                               174
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                   THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
               This graph very clearly shows that z, (x) is monotonedecreasing in x, and
               equal to zero for x > x.
                  In order to obtain similar results for the second approximation, we
               must show thatf,” (x) > 0. We have
               (8)             fi (x) = T (2(x), x,fo),       O<*e<nm,
                                     = T (0, x,fo),           Xy<i Kx.
                In [0, x,], we have
               (9)     fi) =—ap |"psydsta [fi(x—s+24 9165) ds,
               and
               (10)                 fi" (x) = ap p(x) + afl (2) @)
                            +(a |fo" (w—s + 2) p(s) ds) (1 +dey/dx).
               From (9), we see thatf,’ (0) = — ap.Sincef,’ (x) is monotone increasing
               in x it follows that ap + af,’ (z) > Oforz >0. Hence we will have
               fi" (x) > 0 if we show that 1 + dz,/dx > 0.
                  To do this we return to the equation defining z,, namely M,’ (z) = 0.
               Using the expression in (5), we see that
               (11)     [afy” @). | gp (s)ds +a [fo’ (x —s + 2) p(s) ds] dz/dx
                                  +a [on(x—s + 2) p(s) ds = 0,
               which shows anew that dz,/dx < 0 and that 1 + dz,/dx > 0.
                  Werequirefinally a relation connectingfy’ (x) andf,’ (x).
               We have
               (12)      fe’ (@) =—ap |" p(s) ds-+a |"f' esp(s) ds.
               Hence in [0, x] we see that f,’ (x) <f,’ (x), since fp’ (x) is monotonein-
               creasing in x. Since f, (x) = fp (x) for x > x, we have
               (13)                          fo (*) <Sfi'(4)
               for all x > 0.
                  Continuingas in the preceding pages, we see that we obtain a function
               Zn (x) for each » having the property that
               (14)                  (a)  zn(x) > OforO0< x% < xn
                                     (b)  Zn (x) = O for %n < x,
                                                                                        175
                                            THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                   and zn (x) monotone decreasing in x. Furthermore the sequence %n will
                   be monotone decreasing and possessa limit x.
                       It remains to show that x = 0 if a, p and & are suitably related. This
                    is equivalent to checking as to whether or not f, (x) is the solution.
                    Returning to (5), we set x = 0 and examine the equation
                    (15)                                  k + af,’ (z) = 0
                    If k + af,’ (0) < 0, there will be a solution of this equation. Turning to
                    (12), we see thatfy’ (0) = — ap. Hence werequire
                    (16)                                       kR<a'hp
                    the intuitive and expected condition for a process involving a one-stage
                    delay.
                          § 15. Convex cost function—unbounded process
                      As anotherillustration of the power of themethodofsuccessiveapprox-
                    imations, let us consider the case where the cost of ordering, g (y — x),
                    is a strictly convex function of the amount, y — x, ordered. The equation
                    iS NOW
                    (1)   fle) = Min (gy —x) +al [” p(s—y) @(s) ds +40)|"p(s) ds
                                    yYy2r
                                                    + [So—s)p(s) as].
                      As usual, we set
                   (2) fale)=al]“p(s—x)@ (sds +fo(0)|p(s) ds +["fole—s)pls)as].
                   and,forn = 1,2,....,
                   (3)                           fn +1 (x) = Min T (y, x, fn).
                                                                 Yar
                   Let us begin with the consideration off, (x), assuming that g (x) possesses
                   a continuous derivative for x > 0.
                       If y > x, y is determined by the equation
                    “ty—=alp[pyds—|"fi9)9(9)ds).
                   Since we have assumedthat g (x) is convex, 1.e. g” (x) > 0, it follows that
                   this equation can have at most oneroot, since the left side is monotone
                    increasing and the right-side monotone decreasing.
                    For x = 0, there is a root provided that
                   (5)                                      g’ (0) <ap.
                    176
                                    THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                For x large, there is no rootif g’ (0) > 0.
                  If y > x, we have
                (6)                        Fy (*) = — 8" (y —4),
                and
                (7)                fi" (x) = — 8" (y — x) (dy/dx — 1).
                To determine the magnitude of dy/dx — 1, we turn to (4). This yields
                (8)        g” (y — x) (dy/dx — 1) = [ — ap p(y) — aft’(0) oly) —
                                      (a |"fo" ( —s) p(s) ds) dyad.
                From this we readily conclude that dy/dx >0O and dy/dx —1 <0.
                Hencef,” (x) > 0.
                  Furthermore, we see that —f,’ > —f,’. We now haveall the details
                of an inductive proof of
                THEOREM 6. There is a function y (x) and a number x with the properties
                (9)            (a)   y(x) > x, y (x) ts monotone increasing
                               (b)  y(x) > 4x, forx<x,y(x) =x,x >%
                               (c)   x > Otfap > 2g’ (0)
                Thisfunction y (x) ts the optimal policy tn (1).
                     Appendix Chapter V—The Renewal Equation
                  The equation
                (1)                u(x) =S (a) + [" u(e—s) p(s)ds,
                which occurs in a great many different areas of analysis, is commonly
                called the renewal equation.
                  There are two important methodsavailable for establishing properties
                of the solutions, the method of the Laplace transform, and the Liouville-
                Neumann method of solution — which is successive approximations.
                  The Laplace transform technique owes its success to the fact that
                |“u (x — s) y (s) ds is a convolution having the formal property that
                (2)       [- e—tx [ i u (x—s) o (s) ds] dx = ( |. e-'& 4 (x) dx)
                           0                                        Oo
                                                                ( [- e~st w(s) ds).
                                                                   0
                                                                                           177
                                           THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                   Hence(1) yields, proceeding completely formally,
                   (3)     [- e~'t 4 (x) dx = [- e~*xF(x) dx / (1 —- [- e- '= @ (x) dx),
                                                       0
                   from which a great deal can be deduced concerning the asymptotic be-
                   havior of u(x) as x —> oo, using either Tauberian theorems or complex
                   variable theory, under appropriate assumptions concerning fand @.
                      However, the properties of most interest to us here, positivity, con-
                   vexity, et al, can most readily be deduced by considering the sequence of
                   approximants
                   (4)                     Uy =f(%)
                                         tn 41 =f(%) + [; un (x — 8) p(s) ds,
                   and showing that each function up (x) has the required property.
                      This approachis justified by the following result.
                   THEOREM 9. Let us assume that
                   (5)   a.   f(x) 1s bounded in every finite interval [0, xo]
                         b.    [- lo (s) |ds <1.
                   Then there 1s a unique solution to (1) which is bounded in any interval
                   [O, Xo].
                      This solution may be obtained as the limit ofthe sequence given by (4).
                      Iff(x) 1s differentiable and y (x) 1s continuous, we have
                   (6)          wa=f") +uO)GO) + |ww—3)p(s) ds.
                      Iff(x) > 9, w (x) => 0, then u (x) > 0.
                      There are a numberof other combinations of conditions corresponding
                   to those given in (5a) and (5b) whichalso yield existence and uniqueness.
                      The proof of Theorem 9 is readily obtained following the techniques
                   we have by now applied many timesover.
                         Exercises and research problems
                   1.  Obtain the analogue of Theorem 3 for the case where thedistribution
                   function of demand varies from stage to stage.
                   178
                                              THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                    2. Consider the case where there are fixed costs in both initial purchasing
                    and the penalty cost and the distribution of demand has the form @ (x)
                    =1/kh,0O<x<k, yp (x) =0,% >k.
                    3. Consider the process with a fixed cost in the case wherethere are only
                    two levels of.demand, high and low. Can one generalize the result ob-
                    tained here to the case of an arbitrary finite numberofdifferent demands ?
                    4. Obtain the analogues of Theorems 1, 2, and 3 in the case where there
                    is a Storage cost at each stage proportional to the quantity of items stored
                    over the previousstage.
                    5. Obtain the functional equations corresponding to the process in which
                    both the demands and times of demand are random. Consider the cases
                    where the times of demand have a continuous distribution and a discrete
                    distribution.
                    6.  Obtain the analogue of Theorem 5 for processes with arbitrary time
                    lags.
                    7.  Consider the case where thereis fixed cost and determine
                       a. The “constant stock level’’ policy which minimizes expected cost
                       b. The “‘sS’’-policy which minimizes expected cost.
                    8. We are interested in producing a single item over a given numberof
                    time periods in order to satisfy known future demands. We wish to do
                    this in such a way as to minimize costs, knowing the costs for production,
                    storage, and change in production rate as functions of time.
                       Let us consider the discrete version first. Let
                                         T = the numberof periods,
                                         ry,  ==    demandat time z?,
                                         X¢   ==    amount produced in timeinterval [¢ — l, ¢],
                                         Xo   ==    given initial production,
                                         Ye   ==    Xt+1—x > 0, the increase in production rate
                                                    at time f/f,
                                         ur   ==    excess of supply over demandat time #.
                                         The costs are
                                         c;   = cost of producing an item in theperiod [7 — 1,2],
                                         d;   = cost of storing an item in excess of demand for
                                                    one period,
                                         e;   ==    cost of increasing production rate by one unit
                                                    per unit of time.
                       Assumethat we wish to minimizethe total cost of the T-period process
                    under the condition that the supply must always exceed the demand.
                                                                                                                    179
                                              THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                     9, Consider the above problem under the condition that production
                    cannot be expanded in an arbitrary fashion. In particular, discuss the
                    two cases
                        a.   XeXMt41 an, 1 <a<o
                       b.    Xe<O X41 < x1 +60,60> 0.
                     10. Consider the case where the demand1s stochastic, under the following
                    two alternative assumptions
                        a.   Demand must alwaysbesatisfied
                        b.   Demand can be postponed onestage
                     11. Obtain the functional equations corresponding to the process de-
                    scribed in § 2 under the assumption that we desire to minimize the prob-
                    ability that the cost exceeds a given quantityc.
                    12. Consider the functional equations discussed in the chapter under the
                    assumption that the distribution function @ (s) ds is replaced by the more
                    general Stieltjes distribution dG (s). Obtain the requisite existence and
                    uniqueness theorems and determine in which ways the theorems esta-
                    blished above must be modified in order to remain valid.
                    13. In what ways is the problem of ordering for a military supply depot
                    different from the problem of ordering items for a department store ?
                    14. Assume that there is no penalty for not being able to meet the de-
                    mand, but that there is a return of 6 dollars for each item demanded and
                    supplied. Suppose that this return can be used to increase the quantity
                    available at the next stage. Given an initial stock of x, and a supply of
                    money equal to y, how should one order so as to maximize the total ex-
                    pected return? Consider both finite and infinite processes under the
                    assumption of proportional costs.
                    15. Consider the equation
                                      f(x) = Max [g (9) +A(e—y) + ["Sy —s) R(s) ds
                    where                       a
                                       (a)  g¢(0) =4(0) =0
                                       (b) g’ (y) > 0, h' (y) > 0, g’ (0) < #’ (0).
                                       (c)  &(s) >0
                                       (d) g" (vy) > 0, h" (y) > 0
                                       (e)  A(y) — g (y) is monotoneIncreasing in y.
                    180
                                                                  THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
                             Show that the solution ts given by
                                                        f=H=h(x)0<e<x
                                                           = g(x) + [fe—5) (6) ds x >%x
                             where x 1s determined as the non-zero root of
                                                                 h(x) = g(x) + I, h(x —s) k(s) ds.
                             16. Consider a situation where one mustorderitemsto be sold in antici-
                             pation of an uncertain demand which can be taken as a knownstochastic
                             variable. Let equal ordering periodsbe indexed 0, 1, 2, ..., and the demand
                             be described by a distribution
                                                        F; (x) = probability that the demand ts less than or equal
                                                                          to x in period 2.
                             Let p be the unit selling price and C (y), assumed differentiable, be the
                             total ordering cost for y units in any period; J be the inventory at the
                             beginning of the present period (period 0); and suppose that all units
                             ordered at the beginning of the period are immediately available—units
                             may be ordered only once during a period and cannot be disposed of
                             except through sales at price # on demand.
                                 Given any ordering policy, #;, at each stage there will be a cash return
                            of
                                                        Pi (xi, Yi, Ji) = P min (Li + yi, xi) —C (yi).
                            Let the purpose of the process be to maximize the expected value of
                                                                        [  X' at Pi (xi, yi, Ji)],O <a <i.
                                                                          i=0
                            Show that the resultant system of recurrencerelations 1s
                                                       fe (I) = max [ |” [p min (I + y, x) —C (y)
                                                                         y>o             Jo
                                                                                               + af+1 (max (0, I + y —x)] dFx (x),
                            and solve in the case where C (y) = cy.                                                                      (Harlan D. Mills)
                            17. Consider the equation
                                         f(x) = Min (ke +a |” p (s— 2) p(s) ds + af(2) |“ (s) ds
                                                                   +a]fe—s+2p(sas),
                                                                                                                                                                    181
                               THE OPTIMAL INVENTORY EQUATION
              corresponding to a one period lag in supply.
                Assuming that the optimal policy is to choose z so that x + z= L,
              for O< x¥<L,and z= for x >L, determine L.
              18. Prove or disprove that this is the optimal policy.
              19. Examine the conjecture that in the general k period lag case, the
              optimal policy is to order nothing if the sum of the quantities on order
              and on hand exceed a certain quantity L, and to order a quantity equal
              to the difference if L exceeds this sum.
                          Bibliography and Comments for Chapter V
                § 1. The mathematical model of the inventory problem weconsider here
              originated in the pioneer paper of K. D. Arrow, T. E. Harris and J. Marschak,
              “Optimal Inventory Policy,” Econometrica, July, 1951. Stimulated by their
              investigations, two further papers appeared A. Dvoretsky, J. Kiefer and
              J. Wolfowitz, ‘‘The Inventory Problem I, II,”’ Econometrica, vol. 20 (1952),
              pp. 187-222.
                The first of these papers is devoted to existence and uniqueness of the
              solution of the basic functional equation, and to a discussion of some parti-
              cular processes. The second paper is more statistical in nature and devoted
              to the question of determining the distribution of functions of demand as
              the process continues.
                The results of this chapter were obtained in conjunction with I. Glicks-
              berg and O. Gross, R. Bellman, I. Glicksberg and O. Gross, ‘“‘On the Optimal
              Inventory Equation,’’ Management Science, vol. 2 (1955), pp. 83-104.
                Since the appearance of these papers, a large number of papers, both
              published and privately circulated, have appeared on the topic of inventory
              control. We suggest that the interested reader thumb through the pages of
              Econometrica, Jour. Soc. Ind. Appl. Math., Jour. Operations Research Society,
              Management Science, and Naval Quarterly Jour. of Logistics, where he will
              find further results and references.
                § 3. The results discussed here are in accordance with the remark of an
              earlier chapter that the derivatives of the return functions, or ‘‘marginal
              returns’ possess a simpler structure that the return functions in manycases.
                Appendix. Further results concerning renewal equations and functions of
              similar type may be found in W. Feller, “‘On the Integral Equation of
              Renewal Theory,’’ Ann. Math. Stat., vol. 12 (1941), R. Bellman, (with the
              collaboration of J. M. Danskin), “‘A Survey of the Theory of Time-Lag,
              Kketarded Control and Hereditary Processes,’’ RANI]Corporation, 1954,
              R-271.
              182
                               CHAPTER VI
                   Bottleneck Problems in Multi-Stage
                          Production Processes
              § 1. Introduction
            In this chapter we shall discuss a particular class of significant and
           difficult variational problemsarising from the study of multi-stage pro-
          duction processes.
            Weshall first formulate a discrete version of the process, which under
          certain assumptions of proportionality of output to input leads us to the
          problem of determining the maximum of a linear form subject to linear
           constraints, a basic problem to which the theory of linear programming
           has made notable contributions in recent years. Although the state of
           analytic research on this fundamental problem isstill in its early stages, a
           large class of problemsarising in applications can be successfully resolved
           numerically, with the aid of modern computing machines and various
           iterative techniques such as the “‘simplex’’ technique.
            The study of bottleneck processes, however, which combine a moderate
           numberof activities at each stage with a large numberof stages, encoun-
           ters the usual difficulty of dimensionality if conventional computational
           methods are used. As in the treatment of the processes of the previous
           chapters, we can circumventthis obstacle to some degree by using for-
           mulation in termsof functional equations. Since, however, we are interest-
           ed in explicit analytic solutions,in order to study the character of optimal
           policies, we shall formulate continuousversions of processes. It is worth
           emphasizing that the continuous process may actually be closer to re-
           ality than the discrete version in many cases. An essential weapon in our
           mathematical armory is the use of the dual continuousprocess, thus ex-
           ploiting the linearity of the process.
            To illustrate the method, we shall treat a simple process in detail, in
           this chapter, while a more complicated process will be discussed in the
           subsequent chapter. In manycases, these analytic methods, applied with
           faith and resolution, permit us to obtain explicit analytic solutions of the
           maximization problem, together with an explicit description of the opti-
           mal policies. Many difficulties, however, remain asfar as the construction
           of a general theory is concerned. Examining the following pages, the
                                                            183
                                                                                            BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                                  reader will quickly see that the mathematical theory of these problemsis
                                  in its rudimentary stages.
                                       The variational problem 1s that of determining the maximumoverthe
                                  vector function z(t) of the inner product (x (T), a), where x and z are
                                  connected by the vector-matrix differential equation
                                  (1)                                                 dx/dt = Ax + Bz,x(0)=c,
                                  and z satisfies the constraint
                                  (2)                                                                      Cz<Dx,
                                  forO<t< Tf.
                                       The techniques we employ to discuss this problem will be further de-
                                  veloped and applied to classical problems in the calculus of variations
                                  in Chapter 9.
                                             § 2. A General class of multi-stage production problems
                                       A central problem in the theory and application of mathematical eco-
                                  nomics is that of integrating a complex of industries, of similar or varie-
                                  gated type, so as to produce a given product in a mostefficient manner.
                                  Here the criterion of efficiency may be minimum time, or maximum
                                  profit, or some combination of both.
                                       As an example, which is quite elementary from the economicpoint of
                                  view, but sufficiently advanced from the mathematical viewpoint to
                                  generate problems which we cannotresolve as readily as we woulddesire,
                                  let us consider a simple model of a three-industry production process
                                  where the individual industries are the ‘‘auto”’ industry, the “‘steel’’ in-
                                  dustry, and the “‘tool”’ industry.}
                                        In this highly condensed or “‘lumped’”’ model of economic interplay ?
                                  weshall assumethat the state of each industry is completely specified at
                                  any time by its stockpile of raw material and byits capacity to produce
                                  new quantities using these raw materials. Furthermore, we shall begin by
                                  assuming that it is sufficient to consider that changes in these basic
                                  quantities, stockpile and capacity, occur only at discrete times ¢ = 0,
                                  1,2,..., T.
                                        1   Needless to say, these names are used merely to guide our intuition. It is
                                  not suggested that any deep significance be attached to them.
                                       2 This type of lumping is precisely analogous to what is done in the study of
                                  electric circuits in the low frequency case, where we introduce the concepts of
                                  ‘resistance’, “‘inductance’’ and ‘“‘capacitance’’.
                                  184
                                                    BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                      Let us then define the following state variables:
                   (1)               xy
                                                c
                                     X(t) = capacity of auto factories at time ¢,
                                                st
                                     vs t)   = capacity of steel mills at timef,
                                                S
                                                 tockpile of tools at time ¢,
                                                capacity of tool factories at time ¢,
                      Wemakethe following assumptions concerning the interdependenceof
                   these three industries:
                   (2)    a.  An increase in auto, steel or tool capacity requires only steel and
                             tools;
                         b. Production of autos requires only auto capacity andsteel;
                         c.   Production of steel requires only steel capacity;
                         d. Production of tools requires only tool capacity and steel.
                      The dynamics of the production process may be described as follows:
                   At the beginning of each unit time period, say ¢ to ¢ + 1, we allocate
                   various quantities of steel and tools, taken from their respective stock-
                   piles, for the purposes of producing autos, steel, and tools — whichis to
                   say increasing the stockpiles of these quantities—andfor the purposesof
                   increasing the auto, steel, and tool capacities.
                      Let, for: = 1,2,
                   (3)  a. 2; (¢)  = amount of steel allocated at time ¢ for the purpose of
                                       increasing x; (t),
                        b. wi (¢) = amount of tools allocated at time ¢ for the purpose of
                                       increasing %; (¢).
                      Uponreferring to the assumptions in (2) we see that
                   (4)                       a.    23 (¢) = 0
                      In order to obtain relations connecting x, (¢ + 1) with x; (4), 2: (¢) and
                   wi: (t), we must make some further assumptions concerning therelations
                   between output and input. The simplest assumption to makeis that we
                   have a linear production process with output of an item always directly
                   proportional to the minamum input of required resources.’ Thus, produc-
                      3 As we have observed in the preface, this may not actually be the simplest
                   for mathematical purposes. A more realistic assumption predicated upon a law
                   of diminishing returns, involving nonlinear functions, may actually lead to a
                   simpler mathematical problem. The reason for this is that nonlinear functions
                   take more kindly to a variational approach. On the other hand, linear problems
                   may be more readily treated numerically, in some cases.
                                                                                                              185
                                     BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
              tion is directly proportional to capacity wheneverthere is an abundance
              of raw materials, i.e., stockpile, and directly proportional to the minimum
              quantity of raw materials whenever there is an abundance of capacity.
                It is because of this dependence upon the minimum resource that we
              use the name “‘bottleneck problems.”’
                As an illustration, the increase in the numberof autos from ¢ to # + 1
              will depend upon the capacity of auto factories at ¢, x, (t), and the quan-
              tity 2, (¢) of steel, as defined abovein (3a). Since production depends upon
              the minimum of capacity and supply of raw material, we obtain the
              equation
              (5)           x,(¢ + 1) = x, (t) + Min (7, %2 (2), ay 2(4),
              where y, and a, are taken to be knownpositive constants.
                In a similar fashion, combining the assumptions in with those of the
              previous paragraph, we obtain the following equations which relate
              xi (t + 1) to x; (¢), 2: (4), and w;(t):4
              (6)  x, (¢-+ 1) = %, (¢) + Min (7,%(2), a1 %(4))
                   X%_(t + 1) = x, (t) + Min (ag 2, (t), Be We(t))
                   X(t + 1) = %5 (t) — 21 (t) — 22 (t) — 24 (¢) — 2s (4) — 2c (f) + v2 %4 (4)
                   %4(t + 1) = x, (t) + Min (ay 2, (2), Ba Wy (2)
                   X(t + 1) = x5 (f) — We (t) — wa (t) — We(¢) + Min [ys %(2), as 2s(2)]
                  X_ (t + 1) = %¢ (t) + Min (ag 2¢ (¢), Be We (¢)),
              where ai, fi, and y; are constants.
                The constraints upon z; and w; are obviously
              (7)                (a) 21, wi > 0
                                 (b) 2, + 2g + 24 +25 + 2 < %;
                                 (C)  We + Wy + We          <4X5
              together with the ‘“‘common-sense’”’ constraints
              (8)                        (a)  Ay Zyl y1 Xe
                                         (C) @, 2% = PB. We
                                         b)  @42, = By, w,
                                         (
                                          )
                4 All these equations are conservation equations which state that the quantity
              of an item at time ¢ + I is the quantity at time ¢, minus the quantity used over
              [¢,¢ + 1], plus the quantity produced over[¢,¢ + 1].
              186
                                                BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                     The meaning of these equations is that there is no advantage to any
                  allocation beyond the capacity of production, and again that the mini-
                  mum resource determines the production level.
                     By means of these additional constraints we may eliminate the va-
                  riables w; completely, obtaining in place of (4.6) the system of equations:
                           x, (f+ 1) = x, (t) + a, 2, (f), 41 (0) = C1,
                           Xo (t+ 1) = XQ (t) + ag 2(A), X2 (0) = Ca,
                           x3 (t + 1) = %3 (tf) — 21 (f) — 22 (ft) — 24 (t) — 25 (4) — 26
                  (9)                                               + Y2% (t), x3 (0) = cs,
                           X(t + 1)       Xq (t) + Gy 24 (2), %q (0) = Cy,
                           X%5 (t + 1)    X5 (t) — &g 22 (t) — &4 24 (t) — Eo 2(t) + as 25 (t),
                                                                 Ei = ai/Bi, x3 (0) = Cs,
                           Xe (E+ 1) = X(t) + Ae 2(t), Xe (0) = Cy.
                     The constraints, in turn, have the form, for each ¢:
                                          (a)   24>0
                                           b)   21+ 2g + 2g + 25 + 26S Xs
                                          (
                  (10)                    (c)   Vo lg + Ya 2s + Vo 2% X5
                                          (d)   4<f,Xe
                                          (ec)  25 <fg Xo.
                     We must now choose the 2%(¢) for ¢ = 0,1, 2, ..., J — 1, subject to
                  the above constraints, so as to maximize x, (T).
                       § 3. Discussion of the preceding model
                     It is easy to see that x, (T), the total number of autos produced over
                  the time period [0, JT], may be written as a linear expression 1n the quan-
                  tities  z;(t),¢ = 0,1,2,...,7—1,1=1,2,...,6. The problem of
                  maximizing x,(7T) subject to the linear constraints of (2.10) is conse-
                  quently within the domain of linear programming. It may be solved
                  computationally for explicit values of the coefficients and the time 7, by
                  iterative processes of various types, provided that T is not too large. In
                  particular, for dynamic processes of the kind considered here, a number
                  of important simplifications are possible.
                     However, in general, in analyses of the type presented here, we are not
                  so much interested in the numerical solution corresponding to any par-
                  ticular set of constants as we are in the complete set of numerical values
                  obtained from a range of parameter values. In other words, in most cases
                  the whole interest of the investigation lies in a “‘sensitivity analysis,’’ or
                  equivalently a ‘‘stability analysis,”’ of the solution.
                                                                                                     187
                                    BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                This sensitivity analysis 1s required because of the many assumptions
              we have madesuchas linearity of output, the crude description of indus-
              tries in terms of lumped capacities and stockpiles we have employed, the
              absence of time lag or “‘lead time’”’ in production, and so on. Any conclu-
              sions concerning the structure of optimal policies that may be drawn
              from the simplified mathematical model can have validity only if these
              conclusionsare relatively insensitive to the precise values of various para-
              meters which occur.
                It is clear from what we have said above that the numerical work
              involved in performing any reliable sensitivity analysis using purely
              computational techniques, involving as it does a probing of many-dimen-
              sional space, will be tedious, time consuming,andinevitably incomplete.
                The question arises then as to whetheror notit is possible to determine
              the intrinsic structure of an optimal policy, regardless of any numerical
              values we may subsequently assign to the parameters. This knowledge1s
              not only of importancein itself, in allowing us to make a completesensi-
              tivity analysis of the solution, but 1s also extremely helpful in determining
              approximate solutions in cases where explicit analysis seems hopeless,
              and in furnishing analytic clues to the solution of more complicated pro-
              cesses.
                As a first step towards obtaining the solution, both analytically and
              computationally, we shall reformulate the problem in termsof functional
             equations.
                  § 4. Functional equations
                It is clear that the total output of cars obtained using an optimalallo-
              cation policy is a function only of the initial resources, c,, ..., Cs, and
              the duration of the process, 7. Furthermore, c, need not be explicitly
             mentioned.
                Let us then define for J = 1, 2,...
              (1) fi(¢s, C3, ..-, Cs; 2) = The total output obtained over a time interval
                                      T starting with initial resources ci,1 =
                                      2,3, ..., 6, and employing an optimal policy
             Employingtheprinciple of optimality, we obtain the following functional
             equation forf(Cs, cz, ..., Cg; 1):
              (2) fe, C3, ..-, Cg; J + 1) = Max [a, 2, + f(ee’, cs’,..., 6 3 T)],
                                            Z
             where
              188
                                                        BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                                          Co   = Cy + Ag 22
                                          Cz   == Cy — 2, —- 2g — 24 — 23 — 2p + Vol
                     (3)                  Cy = Cg + Oy %
                                             /
                                          Cy == Cy — Eq 2g — Eq 24 — Eg 2% + A; 25
                                          Ce = Ce + Ae Ze,
                     and Z denotes the region in the (2), 22, 24, 25, 2)-Space defined by the
                     following inequalities
                                                 (a)    2>0
                                                 (b)    2) + 22 + 2% + 2 + 2% < Cy
                     (4)                         (C)    Ye22+ Ya%a + Yo %e Sos
                                                 (4)    a<feee
                                                 (e)    2<feCe
                        The analytic problem of determining /, and, more importantly, the
                     nature of the optimal policyis still one of great difficulty. The computa-
                     tional problem is also formidable involving as it does the tabulation of a
                     function of five variables for each value of T. The homogeneity of the
                     process enables us to reduce this to a problem involving four variables.
                     Weshall refer to this fact again in following sections.
                        The computational problem involved in determining the maximum
                     over the region Z, a polyhedral region bounded by planes, maybe greatly
                     simplified by observing that the maximum occursat vertices.
                           § 5. A Continuousversion 5
                        To simplify the analytic problem, we shall transform the discrete
                     process into a continuous process. In so doing, our purpose is to avail
                     ourselves of the combination of the powerful methods of calculus, to-
                     gether with the resources of linear algebra.It is very often true, in dealing
                     with the physical world, that continuous models are far simpler to discuss
                     than discrete models.
                        To obtain a continuous version, we assume that decisions are made at
                     times 0, At, 2 At, and so on, and that the allocations z; (¢), wi (t) previously
                    made overthe timeinterval[¢, ¢ + 1] are replaced by allocations 2; (¢) Af,
                    wi (t)'At over the interval [#,¢-+ At]. The quantities z;(¢) and w;(?)
                     are now rates of allocation of resources.
                        Turning to the equations in (2.9) describing the discrete process and
                     allowing 4? to approach zero, the new equations take the form
                        5 Chapter VIII is devoted to a similar continuous version of the discrete process
                     of Chapter IT.
                                                                                                                       189
                                                                   BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                                 xy (t) = a, 2, (t), x1 (0) = cy,
                                 X(t) = Ag Ze (t), Xo (0) = Ce,
                                 X3 (t) = — 2, (t) — 25 (t) — 2q (t) — 25 (4) — 26 (4) + yo X(t),
                                                                                                                                   ¢3,
                                                                                                                              =
                                                                                                                        (0)
                                                                                                                    x3
                         (1)
                                 Xq (t) = Ag 2q (t), X_ (0) = Cy,
                                                                                                                                       6s,
                                                                                                                                  =
                                                                                                                            (0)
                                                                                                                       Xs
                                                                                                                  (8),
                                                                                                              25
                                                                                                         Os
                                                                                                     +
                                                                                                (t)
                                                                                            26
                                                                                        6
                                                                                  —
                                                                              (Ct)
                                                                          24
                                                                      &4
                                                                 —
                                                            (t)
                                                        22
                                                    &2
                                               —
                                           =
                                      (0)
                                 ies
                                 Xq (t) = Ae 2(t), 6 (0) = Ce.
                            (* signifies differentiation with respect to ft).
                             The constraints upon the z; are now
                                                             (a)     24> 0
                                                             (b)     21 + 2g + 2% + 25 + % << 0O
                         (2)                                 (C)     Yo%_ + Yq 2q + Ve Zs 00
                                                             (dq)    tafex2
                                                             (e-)     2<feXe
                             This means that the constraints of (2b) and (2c) disappear. Two con-
                         ditions which were automatically satisfied before must nowbe added.
                         These are the conditions that the stockpiles be non-negativeat all times,
                         (3)                                                 (b’) x3 = 0
                                                                             (c’)   x, > 0,
                             From these constraints we see that whenever x, = 0 we must have
                         (4)                                 2, + 23 + 24+ 25 + 2p ye %
                         and similarly when x, = 0 we must have
                         (5)                                     Eg Zo + &4 24 + Es 2% As; 25
                             It follows that z,, 23, 24, and z, are unbounded whenever x, and x; are
                         positive. This means that delta-function type solutions may occur. This
                         point will be discussed in more detail in the subsequent chapter where an
                         example involving this type of solution is discussed. However, a rigorous
                         discussion of this feature of a solution will be postponed until the second
                         volume. Weshall proceed essentially in a formal manner in this and the
                         following chapterat various points where a rigorous discussion would take
                         us too far afield.®
                             6  It is important to point out that the continuous process is described by the
                         above equations. A detailed discussion of this point is given in Chapter VIII,
                         where wealso discuss the connection between the discrete and continuous processes.
                         190                                                  ,
                                     BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                The problem is now to maximizex, (7) subject to the above constraints.
                After some discussion of notation, we shall approach this problem
              using the functional equation approach of dynamic programming.
                  § 6. Notation
                Let us introduce vector-matrix notation which will greatly simplify
              the notation and thus be of considerable help in presenting the general
              theoretical approach, unclouded by a superabundance of superscripts.
              Following the discussion of the basic concepts, we shall consider a par-
              ticular example, to illustrate the analytic minutiae, which are nottrivial.
                Let x (t), z(t), and c denote respectively the n-dimensional column
              vectors
                                 x, (2)             z, (t)          Cy
                                 Xe (t)             Ze (t)          Ce
                                                            c=
                                               =
                                         ,z(t)
                           =
                       x(t)
                                 xn(2)              Zn (            cn
              and A;, B;, for such values of 1 and 7 as occur, denote ” x m matrices.
                Weshall be dealing only with vectors x and z whose components are
              non-negative. To indicate this fact we use the notation x > 0 to denote
              the relations x; > 0,1 = 1, 2, ..., m. The inequality x > y is equivalent
              tox —y > 0.
                Turning to the equation in (5.1), we see that it may be written
              (1)                dx/dt = A,x + A,2z,x(0) =c
              where A, and A, are matrices determined by the coefficients in (5.1).
              Similarly, the constraints in (5.2)—(5.5) take the form
              (2)                          z>0
                                           B,z2<B,x
                The problem of maximizing x, (T) is a particular case of the problem of
              maximizing a linear combination, z c; xi(T). To express this in simple
              form, we introduce the inner productof two vectors x and y, namely
                                                       ye
                                                    mi
                                                 Zz
                                               =
                                            ¥)
                                         (x,
              (3)
                                                 i=
                The general problem is then that of choosing z (¢) so as to maximize
              (x (7), a) where a is a given vector, subject to the relations given above in
              (1) and (2).
                                                                               191
                                                                                 BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                                   One of the difficulties that arises in the continuouscase, and not in the
                              discrete process, is that this maximum maynotexist if we restrict z (¢) to
                              be a function in the usual sense. Weshall proceed on the assumption that
                              the constraints in (6.2) are sufficient to ensure the existence of a maxi-
                              mizing function. This will be the case if (6.2) has the form z < B,x,
                              whereB,is a positive matrix. A complete treatment will require the use
                              of Stieltjes integrals.
                                       § 7. Dynamic programming formulation
                                   Since the forms of the equations in (6.2)                                              are time-independent,
                              it follows that Max (x (7), a) (where we shall assume throughout
                              the remainder of this expository chapter that the maximum actually
                              exists) is a function only of J and the componentsof c, whichis to say, of
                              the initial stockpiles and capacities, the state variables and the duration
                              of the process.
                                   Let us then write
                              (1)                         Max (x (T), a) = f(c, T) =f(cy, Ce, ..., nj T).
                                        § 8. The basic functional equation
                                   Weshall now derive a functional equation forfusing the Principle of
                              Optimality 7, which in this case states that the nature of any optimal
                              allocation policy over the interval [0, T], which is to say, one whichyields
                              the maximum of(x (7), a), is such that its continuation over any final
                              sub-interval [S, T] must be an optimal policy for a process of duration
                              T—Sstarting from the initial state c (S).
                                   Here c(S) is the vector x (S) obtained from (6.1) using an allocation
                              policy over [0, S].
                                   The mathematical transliteration of the verbal principle yields the
                              functional equation
                              (1)                                              f(¢,5 + 2) =f(¢ (S), 7)
                              for an optimal policy over[0, S + T].
                                   It follows that the policy over [0, S] is determined by the equation
                              (2)                                       f(e,S + 1) = Maxj'(c (S), T),
                              where we maximize overall feasible policies over [0, S], that is to say,
                              overall z (¢) satisfying the constraints.
                                   Equation (2), together with the initial condition f(c, 0) = (c, a), is the
                              basic functional equation governing the process.
                                   7   Chapter ITI, § 3.
                               192
                                     BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                  § 9. The resultant nonlinear partial differential equation
                Let us now usethe basic equationin (8.2) to derive a partial differential
              equation forf, on the assumption thatfand x possess the requisite differ-
              entiability properties. As we shall see below, it 1s quite permissible to
              proceed formally at this point since we shall derive a technique for veri-
              fying the validity of any proposed solution.
                Let us take S to be an infinitesimal. Then we have
              (1)  (a) f(e,S +7) =f(e, 1) + Sfr + o(S),
                   (b) c(S) =c+S[A,c + A,z(0)] + 0(S),
                   (c) f(c(S),T) =f(e + S [Arie + Azz (0)J, T) + 0 (S)
                                                                 d
                                  =fle, T) + Slave + Azz 00), <2) + 0(5),
              where ¢f/d c denotes the vector
                                                  of
                                                  OC,
                                                  of
                                        of        OC,
               2                        SS
              )                         Oc         "
                                                  af
                                                  
                                                 Ccn
                As S shrinks to 0, the maximum overtheinterval [0, S] shrinks to a
              maximum at S = 0, or a maximum over z (0), under our assumptions of
              continuity. With reference to the expansionsin (1) above, we see that the
              infinitesimal analogue of (1) is the nonlinear partial differential equation
              (3)             of/oT = Max (4, c + A, z (0) ‘L))
                                        z (0)                  Oc
              where z (0) is constrained by the equationsin (6.2).
                  § 10. Application of the partial differential equation
                The importance of the equation in (9.3) resides in the fact that it per-
              mits us to determine the solution over [0, T + A T] if the solution has
              already been determined over [0, 7] for a// initial states.
                It turns out to be true that in many of these problemsthedifficulties
              are readily resolved for small 7, since for processes of short duration, the
                                                                               193
                                           BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                obvious, crude, policies are optimal. It follows then that we have, in
                theory, a systematic means of continuing the solution up to any desired
                value of 7. Although systematic, the details are by no meanstrivial, as
                we shall see in the next chapter.
                  In the next section, we shall go through the analysis involvedin re-
                solving a relatively simple problem. Much of the analysis can be discarded,
                once we have ascertained the structure of the solution, which in many
                cases is plausible on economic grounds.
                     § 11. A Particular example
                  As an application of the general approach presented above, let us now
                consider the problem of maximizing x, (TJ), where
                (1)                  dx,/dt = a, 2,, x, (0) = ¢,,
                                     Ax.,|dt = As 29 — 215 Xo (0) = Co,
                and z,, 22, the rates of allocation, as functions of ¢ are subject to the
                following constraints:
                (2)                            (a)  24,2, >0,
                                              (b)   2, + 2% < Xe,
                                              (Cc)  %<44,
                                              (d)   x, >0.
                forO<t<T.
                  In this case, the rates z, and z, are uniformly bounded,andit is easy to
                see, using either a direct weak convergence argument, or relying upon
                classical theorems in the calculus of variations, that the maximum is
                assumed. Hence we maySet in rigorous fashion,
                (3)                      (cy, Co, T) = Max x, (T).
                                                         [0, 7]
                  As in the general case, f satisfies the functional equation
                (4)            F(ex, C2, S + T) = Max f(x, (S), x2 (S), T),
                                                     (0, S]
                which, in the limit as S — 0, yields the partial differential equation
                                 of                 of                  of|
                (5)              apMax A,2, ac, + (@_2, — 2;) dc, ,
                which, at the moment, werecall, is purely formal, since we do not know
                whetheror notf has the requisite continuity properties.
                194
                                             BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                   The maximum is taken over the region defined by
                 (6)                            (a)  0 < 41, 22,
                                                (b)  2, + 2%< Cg,
                                                (c)  22       <= Ci,
                 with the additional constraint
                 (7)                              Ay 2 — 2, = O,
                 if x, = 0. The variables are now z, = 2, (0), z2 = 2, (0).
                    Let us now sketch the analytic procedurethat will yield a solution. We
                 begin with the most complicated case, that where c. < c,. For a process
                 of short duration, the solution is trivial. We have
                 (8)                              Zz, = 0, 25 = Xo,
                                                  f=CgehT,
                    This policy is pursued until a “‘bottleneck’”’ develops, whichis to say,
                 c, exceeds c,. Using the optimal policy described in (8) we see that this
                 situation will occur as soon as T exceeds 7, = log (c,/C2)/@p.
                    To obtain the solution for T > 7,, we rewrite (5) in the form
                                 F                     Ff     2)           F
                 (9)             oTmax E(2ac,dc,) * “* ac,
                 The location of the maximizing point(z, (0), z, (0)) will depend upon the
                 sign and magnitude of the coefficients of z, and z,. For T < 7, we have
                                      of     af                     af           .
                  10
                                     ——                  a      Ay=a,eu’,
                 (10)              “1 OC,    Gs                    OCe
                    Using our assumption concerning the continuity of df/éc,, 0f/dc,, we
                 suspect that the solution for T slightly greater than 7, will have the
                 form
                 (11)                (a)   2,;=0,2,=%x,forO<S< 7,
                                     (b)   2,;=0,2,=%,for7T, <<S<T.
                    Applyingthis policy, f takes the form
                 (12)                    f= ce, + (T —T,) As Ci,
                 where 7, is as above. In order to determine how longthis policy endures
                 when T > T,, we consider the process as starting from S = T,. In terms
                 of cy’ = c, (T,), co’ = c,(T,), f has the form
                 (13)                         f=c, + a,c,’ (T —T,)
                                                                                                 195
                                                                                                                                                                            BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                                                                         The equation which replaces (9) has precisely the same form with ¢c, c,
                                                               replaced by c,’, c,’, namely
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                —                                                 a
                                                                  tax [,(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a                               L)                                     aL,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Oc;                             OCs                                             OC,’
                                                               \                                                             oTAT) a \e
                                                               Wehave,using (13),
                                                                                                                                                            of                             of
                                                               (15)                                                                          15GeUB—Fy)—I,
                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                            “8 Bc,!                                                        ~ Ga
                                                               The coefficient of z, is negative for T < 7* = 7, + 1/a, a,, 0 at T*, and
                                                               positive thereafter.
                                                                          It follows that the new policy given by (11) remains optimal for T, <
                                                                T<T*.
                                                                         Furthermore, since 7* — T, is independent of c, and c., we see that
                                                               we know the form of the optimalpolicy over a tail interval.
                                                                          It remains to determine whatthe policy is in the middle of the interval
                                                               [0, 7] in the general case when T exceeds T*. We suspect from an exami-
                                                               nation of the vertices in the figure below that it has the form
                                                               (16)                                                                                                                21 — Xo — x1) 29 = xy.
                                                                          It is instructive to consider the region determined by the constraints
                                                               in (6) when c, > ¢,
                                                                                                            Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ZozC
                                                                                                                        \0                                                                              f/f 2                                             \
                                                                                                             P
                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Z| +Zo2Co
                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                0                                                                                                                    R                                                                                                               Z|
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Figure 1
                                                                          When maximizing over z, the three crucial points are the vertices P,
                                                               Q and R, where P = P (0, ¢,), Q = (Co — ¢1, C1), R = (Cy, 0). It is the
                                                                principle ofcontinuitywhich leads us tochooseQ asthemaximizingvertex
                                                                aS SOON aS Cg Surpasses ¢C).
                                                                196
                                                     BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                       Instead of verifying this directly, which may be done, weshall describe
                    in the next section a more elegant technique which exploits the linearity
                    of the process. This technique serves not only as a means of verifying
                    proposed solutions, but also as a theoretical tool for the determination of
                   the nature of optimal policies.
                          § 12. A Dual problem
                       Let us, to illustrate the principles we shall employ, take our basic
                   equation to have the form
                    (1)                              dx/dt = Az,z(0) =c,
                    with constraints of the form
                    (2)                                      (a)   220
                                                             (b)   Bz<x
                                                             (c)   x > 0.
                       Note that the equation in (6.1) may always be written in the form of
                    (1), if A, > 0, by first writing it in the form
                    (3)                       dx/dt = A,yw+ A,2,x(0) =c,
                    with the constraints
                                                                    z>0
                                                             (a)
                    (4)
                                                                   Be<x
                                                             (b)
                                                                    wor.
                                                             (Cc)
                    and then combining the vectors w and z into one. However, an equation
                    of the type appearing in (6.1) may also be treated directly by these
                    methods.
                       Since ¥ =c + I Azdt, the constraint of (2b) may be written
                    (5)                         Br + | Cadt <c,             (C = —A)
                    The problem of maximizing(x (7), a) 1s equivalent to that of maximizing
                      T                      T
                    | (Az, a) dt = | (z,a’) dt, wherea’ = A’a. HereA’denotesthetranspose
                      0                     oO
                    of A.
                       Beginning all over again, we start with the problem of maximizing
                              T
                    J= | (z, a’) dt over all z satisfying the constraints
                             oO
                                                                                                                  197
                                           BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                (6)                        (a)  z>0
                                           (b)  Br + |Cadt, <c
                  “é
                   Let w (¢) be a non-negative vector of the same dimension as c. Then by
                virtue of (6b) we have
                (7)               [(w,Bz + I. Czdt,) dt< [ (w, c) dt
                                   oO
                Let, as above, B’ denote the transpose of B. Then, as is easily seen,
                (Bz, w) = (z, B’ w). Integration by parts yields, for any constant matrix
                C,
                                   T       t                T     T
                (8)               | (w, | Czdt,) dt = |         | C'wdt,, 2) dt
                                   0       0               0     t
                   Combining these two results, we have
                         T             t                T            T
                (9)    | (w, Be + | Czdt,) dt = | (Blw + | C'wdt,, 2) dt
                        0              O               0            t
                   Let us now assunie that it is possible to find a vector w = w(t) which
                is non-negative and satisfies the inequality
                                                      T
                (10)                       Blw + | C'wdt, > a
                                                     t
                   We then have the chain of equalities and inequalities:
                                    T                T             t
                (11)              | (w,c) dt > | (w, Bz + | C2dt;) dt
                                    T            T                   T
                               — | (Ble + | C'wdt, 2) dt > | (a’, 2) dt
                                    O            t                   O
                   From thisit is clear that
                                          .
                (12)                Inf |   (w., c) dt > Sup |" (2, a") dt
                where the infimum and supremum are taken overall wand z satisfying
                the inequalities of (10) and (6b). If the mintmum and maximum areas-
                sumed, the details are as above. If, however, the minimum and maximum
                are not assumed, then delta-functions will occur, which is to say, we must
                reformulate the problems in terms of Stieltjes integrals. A number of
                interesting and difficult problems arise in this way, which weshall not
                discuss here.*
                198
                                                BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                     If the two extremes in (11) are equal, we see that the followingrela-
                  tions must hold °
                  (13)                      wi = Oifc; > (Bz + [ Czdt);
                                                                        0
                                                                           T
                                           zj3 = Olfa; <(B’w+ | C’wat);
                                                                          t
                    The important fact which we nowwishtoestablish is that, conversely,
                  any pair of non-negative z and w satisfying (13) and the original con-
                  straints will furnish solutions to the maximum and minimum problems.
                     To demonstrate this, let us note that if (13) holds, all the relations in
                  (11) are equalities. Assume nowthat z is another vectorsatisfying all the
                  constraints and for which
                  (14)                       |" (2, a’) dt < [ (Z, a’) dt
                                              0
                  Then with the w associated with z we have
                                    T                  T                T
                  (15)            | Ga’) dt< | (3, Bw + | C'wdt,) dt
                                    Oo                Oo               t
                                                       T            t                    T
                                                 -.      (Bz +4 | Cidt,, w) dt < |         (c, w) dt
                                                       T
                                                 — | (z, a’) dt,
                 a contradiction.
                    It follows then that we have a procedure for verifying a conjectured
                  solution. Given z, we seek to determine w by meansof (13). Having ob-
                  tained w, we test to see whetheror not w satisfies the given constraints. In
                  the next section we shall carry through thedetails for the problem of § 11.
                  This procedure will encounterdifficulties if w is not uniquely determined
                  by (13). In this case, various alternative solutions must be considered.
                    8  In particular, we shall not discuss the connection with a min-max result in
                  the theory of games, a result corresponding to known results for the discrete
                  problem.
                     ® Apart from sets of measure zero.
                                                                                                      199
                                                    BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                          § 13. Verification of the solution given in § 11
                       Applying the techniques described above, wefind that the dual of the
                    problem posed in § 11 is the problem of minimizing |: (Cy W, + Cy We) at
                   over w,(t) and w, (¢), where y and w are connected by the equations,
                    (1)
                                           dy,/dt
                                                   =
                                                       —a,w,+
                                                                      W2,9,(T)
                                                                                    =—1,
                                           dy./dt —- -— As We,             Ve (T) — As 10°
                   and the constraints have the form
                   (2)                                (a)   Wy, WW, >0
                                                      (b)   w, + We > Ve
                                                      (Cc)  We>y
                   The equations of (12.13) are now:
                       If
                   (3)                        (a)   22<%),                then w, = 0
                                              (b)    2,+2,<%, thenw, = 0
                                               C)   We>YV,,               then z, = 0
                                              (
                                              (d)   w,+ w, > ye, then z, = 0
                      We have omitted the conditions corresponding to x, > 0 since we
                   suspect that the proposed optimal allocation policy automatically keeps
                   X_ => 0. This ts actually the case.
                      Wewishto verify that the policy which maximizes x (T) is the follow-
                   ing:
                                                                     (1) if Xo <= X14) 21 = 0, Zo = Xe
                          (b) ForO << t< T — La, ay,
                                                                     (2) if x2 D> %4, 2) = Xp — %y, Zy = Hy
                      It is easily seen that this is a permissible policy in that z, = x, — x, 1S
                   actually non-negative when z, and z, have the above values.
                      Having prescribed z, we can determine w using (3) and then test for
                   consistency. [here are two cases to consider, depending upon whether x,
                   ever exceeds x, or not.
                      Let us assume then that T > 7,, in which case x, can exceed x,if
                   appropriate policies are used.
                      10 Observe that the dual process proceeds backwards in time.
                   200
                               BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
           Case I: T — l/a,a, < T, < T. Thesolution is given by
            (5)               fort << T,:2, = 0,2, = %,
                              fort > 7,:2,; =0,2, = x;
            For ¢ < T, these results yield, in conjunction with (2) and (3)
            (6)           for T, < T: wv,(t) = 0, w, (4) = yz(E)
                          for T, >T: w, (t) = 0, w, (t) = yz(t)
            For ¢ > 7, we obtain, using (1)
            (7)       Ya (t) = ay, y, (t) = —1 + a,a,(T —?t) <0
            while for t < T,, we have
            (8)       Ve (t) = a, e%(T,-t) > 0
                      yy (t) = a, a, (T — Ty) — es 1-9 << 0
            Hence, the inequalities w,, w, > 0, Wz > V1, WW: > yz are Satisfied in their
            respective intervals.
           Case II: T, < T — 1/a, a,. This is the most interesting case. The vectors
            z and w are now determinedasfollows:
                    forT —lfaja,xt<T:     24,=0,H,=0
                                          2g = X%1, Wy = Ve
            (9)     forT,<t< T—A1fa,a,: 2, = %,—4%, W, = 41
                                          Sq = %1, Wy = Ve — V1
                    forO<t<T;,:           z,=0,w,=—0
                                          Zo = Xo, We = Veo
             For T — 1/a,a,<t < T we have
            (10)         Vo (t) = ae, y, (f) = —1+ a, a,(T —2)
            Hence, in this interval y, (4) << 0 = w,. Note that y, (T — 1/a,a,) = 0.
            In the range T, < ¢< T — 1/a, a,, we have the equations
            (11)            dy,/dt = —agy,+ (4, +1) 1
                            dy,/dt = — a, V2
             Let us show that y, >0 and y, >¥y, in this range. Starting from
            t = IT — 1/a, a, where the inequalities are satisfied, let us reverse the
            time. The backward equations are
            (12)             dy,/dt = a,¥,—(1 + a) yy
                             dy,/dt = az Va
                                                                 201
                             BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
             From this we obtain
           (13)            d/dt (v2 —1) = (1+ 4) v1
             Hence,if y, remains non-negative, we will have y, — y, > 0. It is clear
           that dy,/di starts out positive and stays positive as long as (y,, V2) remains
           above @, V2 — (1 + a@,) vy, = 0. Ifit hits the line we have dy,/dt = 0, which
           means that y, has a maximum or a point of inflection. Both are excluded,
           since
                                         a
                      a” yy   dy.
                       
           (14)                          a
                                            = aVz > 0
                      ipyeAT)
           This shows that w, and w, remain non-negative in this interval.
            Finally, for ¢ < T, we have
           (15)            dy,/dt = yy», dy,/dt = — a, V2
           As ¢ decreases, y. increases and y, decreases. Hence, y, > y, remains
           valid.
            This completes the verification.
              § 14. Computational solution
            The problem of maximizing xy, where
           (1)    Ke +L == Ay Xe + Aye Ve + Oy, Ze + Oy, We, Xo = Cy,
                  Viet == Ag, Xe + Age Va + De, Ze + Deo Wk, Vo = Ce,
           over sequences {zx} and {wx} subject to constraints of the form
           (2)     diy Zu + dig We < dig Xu + dig Vx,t = 1, 2,..., M,
           may be reduced, as we know, to the computation of the sequence
           {fr (C1, C2)}, R = 1, 2, ..., N, where
           (3)  fi (C1, C2) = Ga,
               fn 41 (C1, Co) = Max Lfn (@11 Cy + Aye Co + 01,2 + Oy w,
                               As, Cy + Age Co + bg, 2 + Dg. w)],
           where RF is the region defined by
           (4)       di, 2+ dig W< dig Cc, + dig Cy, 1 == 1,2,..., M.
            Althoughit is not difficult to show that the maximum valueis attained
           at a vertex of the region defined by (4), an exercise we recommendto the
           reader, which meansthat the maximization at each stageis trivial com-
           putationally, we are still faced with the problem of the tabulation of a
           202
                                                                                                                                                                        BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                                                               sequenceof functions of two variables. What seems to make the problem
                                                               particularly onerousin this case is the fact that we havea possibly increa-
                                                               sing grid in the (c,,c,) plane. In other words, if we wish to compute
                                                             Jn (C1, C2) in the region 0 < c, < ¢,,0< cy < ¢,, we may haveto calculate
                                                             jw - , ina larger region, fy — , ina still larger region and so on.
                                                                         It is clear that whenevera situation of this type arises, we have a very
                                                               costly and time-consuming computation.
                                                                         Let us now show that we can simultaneously reduce the computation
                                                               of the sequence {fw (ci, C2)} to the computation of two sequencesof func-
                                                               tions of one variable, and to the case where wehave a fixed grid.
                                                                         Ourbasic tool is the following homogeneity property offw(C1, cs),
                                                               (5)                                                                                        In (C1, Ce) — CifN (1, C2/C;) ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    = Cyfn (¢,/C2, 1),
                                                              for Cy, Ce > 0.
                                                                        We may thus write (3) in the form
                                                              (6)                                   In +1 (cy, €Cy) = Max (2 Cy + Aye lg + 04,2 + Oy w)
                                                                                                                                                                                              f ( As, Cy + Age Cg + bo, 2% + Doo *)|
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ni{                1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ay, €, + Ayo C, + 04,2 + Oy, w
                                                                                                                                                         = Max (2a Cy + Age Co + Oy, 2 + doe w)
                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                              f (tntdiate Oe+ Ona 1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ” Ay, Cy + Ago Cy + bg, 2 + Den w’
                                                                       Wesee then that the calculation of fw +1 (c,, c,) can be effected if we
                                                             know the two functions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I,
                                                             (7)                                                                                     gv (x) = fn (x, 1), 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       \
                                                             Hence the computation of the sequence{fw (c,, c.)} may be reduced to the
                                                             computation of the two sequences {gn (x)}, {hn (x)}.
                                                                                § 15. Nonlinear problems
                                                                      A variety of problems in analysis, and in applications to control prob-
                                                            lems arising In engineering and mathematical economics, reduce to the
                                                            maximization or minimization of an integral of the form
                                                                                                                                                              T
                                                             (1)                                                    T(2) = | F (%4, Xo, «++, Xn} 21, Za, «+, 2m) al,
                                                            over all functions 2; (¢)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 203
                                                      BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                    subject to a numberof constraints of the form
                    (2)                       (a)   dxifdt = Gi (x, z),~7=1,...,R
                                              (b)   Ry (x, 2) <0,7 = 1,2, ...0.
                       In somecases, the nonlinearity leads to a more complete analysis, since
                    it permits us to determine the extremalby classicalvariationaltechniques,
                    rather than test vertices as we must do in linear problems. In cases where
                    constraints of the type above enter, we must combine the two approaches.
                    In either situation, the functional equation technique maybe utilized for
                    both analytic and numerical purposes.
                       Problems of this type will be discussed in Chapter9.
                          Exercises and Research Problems for Chapter VI
                    1.  Consider the problem of maximizing the linear form
                        L (x) = 2» b; xi, subject to the constraint x; > 0 and
                                   1~=1]
                          n
                            Wij Xj <Ci,4 = 1, 2, ..., M, where we assumethat thecoefficients
                       jel
                    aij and 6; are positive. Let
                                                Jn (C1, Cg -.-, Cm) = Max L (x).
                    Show that                                                es
                         Ti (C1, Ce, «.-, Cm)          = bd, Min Ci/aiy,
                          fn+1 (Cy, Co, -.-,¢m)        = Max[Bn 41%
                                                       +fa(Cy — Ayn +1%, ...,CM —aAmMn+1 x)],
                          where 0 < x < Min[ci/ain +1].
                                                  i
                    2.  Show thatfn (ci, ce, ... ,¢n) is a concave function of the c; for c; = 0.
                    3. What conclusion can be drawnfrom this result concerning the number
                    of the maximizing x; which are non-zero?
                    4, Consider the above problem for the case where M = 1,2, or 3, and
                    determine the dependence of the maximizing x; upon the parameters c;,
                    and the analytic form offn.
                    5. Show that the tabulation of the functionfn (c;, cz, ..-., ¢w) can always
                    be reduced to the tabulation of the function fn (c;, cz, ..., 1). Establish
                    the corresponding result for the bottleneck process discussed above.
                   204
                                                        BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
                     6. Consider the problem of maximizing u (T) where
                                                     du/dt =au+uv,u(0) =c,
                     overall function v (¢) satisfying the constraintO<v<ufor0O<t<T.
                     Here all the quantities involved are scalars.
                     7.  Solve the general problem of maximizing (x (T), a) where
                                                    dx/dt = Ax + By, x (0) =c,
                     over all vectors y (¢) satisfying the constraintO< y< xforO<t< T.
                     Here x, y, c and a are vectors, while A and B are matrices.
                     8.  Show that the problem of maximizing x, (7) under the conditions
                     (a)    dx,/dt = ay 2, — 25, X_ (0) = Co,
                            Ax,/dt = bs V3 23 — V2 22, X3 (0) = Cs,
                     where z, and z, are functionsof ¢ subject to the restraints
                     (b)    1. 2, + 23 < %.,
                            2. Vo 22 + Ys %3< X3,
                            3. 25, 23 —> O,
                     is equivalent to solving the partial differential equation
                            of              ( of                2)                    of       of     |
                     (c)    amax feOc,7?az 22 + OsYs Gc, Cy *3]°
                     where D (z) is the region determined by (b), under appropriate assump-
                     tions of continuity.
                        All parameters appearing are assumed to be non-negative and f =
                    fF (C2, C3, #).
                     9.  Show that optimal policies depend only upon the ratio 7 = c,/c;, or
                    X%_/X_, and T the time remaining.
                     10. Determine the form of the solution for small 7.
                     11. Solve the problem in the special case where b, = 0.
                                      Bibliography and Comments for Chapter VI
                       § 1. A discussion of the theory of linear programming may be found in
                     Activity Analysis of Production and Allocation, Edited by T. C. Koopmans,
                    Cowles Commission, U. of Chicago, 1951, where there is an account of the
                     “simplex’’ technique of G. Dantzig, and a number of applications. An
                                                                                                                       205
                                     BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS
              account of an iterative technique of a different type, the ‘‘flooding’’ technique
              of A. Boldyreff may be found in A. Boldyreff, Determination of the Maximal
              Steady Flow of Traffic Through a Railroad Network, RAND Corporation,
              P-—687, 1955. Both of these are “‘relaxation techniques’’ of the kind brought
              into prominence by R. Y. Southwell.
                § 5. The methods and results of this and the following section were
              announcedin R. Bellman,“Bottleneck Problemsand Dynamic Programming,”’
              Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., vol. 39 (1953), and presented in detail by R. Bellman,
              ‘Bottleneck Problems, Functional Equations and Dynamic Programming,”’
              Econometrica, vol. 23 (1955), pp. 73-87.
                § 9. A rigorous theory of these variational problems will involve at least
              Lebesgue-Stieltjes integrals and, most likely, the theory of distributions of
              L. Schwarz. It may well be that this will serve as a motivation for the study
              of variational problems involving distributions.
                § 12. Asin the discrete case, the dual problem is most logically discussed by
              treating the min-max problem containing both the original and the dual
              process. A number of results can be established concerning the existence
              of a value of the corresponding game and the equivalence, min-max =
              max-min, using existing results in the theory of continuous games, in the
              case where the policy functions are uniformly bounded as a consequence of
              the constraints. The general case however, awaits a theory of games over the
              space of the distribution functions of L. Schwarz.
                It is remarkable that so much can be obtained using only the easily derived
              result of (12.12).
                § 13. R. S. Lehman has found a continuous version of the ‘‘simplex’’
              method of Dantzig which can be used to obtain the solutions of variational
              problems of this type in a systematic fashion. A preliminary accountof his
              results may be foundin R. 5. Lehman, “‘On the Continuous Simplex Method”
              RM-1386, RAND Corporation, 1954.
              206
                                                        CHAPTER VII
                                      Bottleneck Problems: Examples
                         § 1. Introduction
                       In the previous chapter, we discussed a multi-stage production process
                   involving three industries, which wecalled the auto, steel, and tool indus-
                   tries. Taking this problem as our motivation, we were led to a general
                   theoretical formulation of a class of continuous multi-stage production
                   processes in terms of the concepts and techniques of the theory of dy-
                   namic programming.
                      The purposeof the present chapter is to show by grinding through the
                   details of a particular example that this new approach maybe utilized
                   to provide explicit analytic solutions of problems of this general type.
                   The analysis is decidedly difficult and it cannot be said that these prob-
                   lems have in any sense been tamed.
                      Weshall consider a lumped two-industry process, involving what we
                   call the auto and steel industries. The high degree of lumping (or more
                   pedantically ‘““conglomeration’’) is indicated by the fact that at any time
                   ¢ we assumethat the state of the industrial system is completely specified
                   by the following quantities:
                   (1)                       x, (tf) = auto stockpile at time ¢
                                             %»_ (t) = auto capacity at time ¢
                                             x3 (t) = steel stockpile at time ¢
                                             X(t) = steel capacity at time ¢
                      Taking ¢ to be a continuous variable, at each instant we must deter-
                   mine rates of allocation of the steel stockpile towards three distinct
                   objectives:
                   (2)                       a.   Production of autos
                                                  Building of auto factories,
                                                  1.e., Increase of auto capacity
                                             c.   Building of steel mills,
                                                  1.e., increase of steel capacity
                                                                                                              207
                                              BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                        The last two of these three objectives are to be sublimatedto thepri-
                    mary objective of maximizing the total numberof autos produced over a
                    time-period 7, which is to say, the quantity x, (7).
                       The basic assumptions of our model are the following: The measures
                    of stockpile and capacity are chosen so that one unit of capacity, either
                    auto or steel, is required for the production of one unit of stockpile in
                    unit time. We assumethat0, units of steel are required to make one unit
                    of autos, }, units of steel are required to increase auto capacity by one
                    unit, and 6, units of steel are required to increase steel capacity by one
                    unit. However, we shall assume that no steel is required to produce addi-
                    tional steel.
                       Avery important assumptionis that there is no time-lag betweenallo-
                    cation and increase in capacity of production. The problems whicharise
                    when time-lag is considered are an order of magnitude moredifficult and
                    will not be discussed here.
                       Let
                    (3)                (a)   2, (¢) = rate of production of autos
                                       (b)   2, (¢) = rate of increase of auto capacity
                                       (c)   23 (t) = rate of production of steel
                                       (d)   2, (¢) = rate of increase of steel capacity
                       Wederive, following the lines of the argumentation of the previous
                    chapter, the following system of equations
                    (4)      dx,/dt = 2z, (t),                                                x, (0) =
                              dx,|dt
                                      =
                                          z,
                                             (t),
                                                                                              x2
                                                                                                 (0)
                                                                                                      =
                             Ax,/dt = 2 (t) — bd, 2, (t) — dg 2, (t) — by 24 (4),             x3 (0) =
                              dx,/dt = 2, (b),                                                x4 (0) =
                    where the z; and x; are subject to the following constraints
                    (9)                                 (a)   2(¢) < %(2)
                                                                        a
                                                        (b)   23 (4)     %(4)
                                                        (c)   24)        >0,  +=1, 2, 3,4,
                                                                        \V
                                                                        VI
                                                        (d)   x3 (4)      >0
                       The first two constraints are capacity constraints, i.e., limitations of
                    bottleneck type; the third is a statement that rates of production must be
                    non-negative, i.e., no scrapping or “‘cannibalization,’’ and the fourth
                    asserts that the steel stockpile must be non-negative,i.e., no borrowing.
                       The problem is now to determine the2; (¢), satisfying the restrictions of
                    208
                                            BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                   (5), which maximize x, (7). Because of the lack of any explicit upper
                   bound on z, and 2,, various difficulties arise which must be surmounted
                   by the use of delta functions.
                         § 2. Preliminaries
                      In § 1, we formulated in mathematical terms the problem of utilizing
                   the steel and auto industries so as to maximize auto production. Let us
                   continue from equations (1.4) and (1.5).
                      The equations can be combined to provide an equivalent system of
                   integral inequalities:
                                                         t
                   (1)         2pXe! a—| 2,(s) ds< Cg,
                                                         0
                                               t
                               O<xs: | (—25 (s) + 5, 2, (s) + de 2 (s) + bg 24 (S)) ds < Cz,
                                              oO
                                                         t
                               2gXq! 2s @—| 2 (s)ds<c,y
                                                         0
                      Our problem is a special case of ithe following more general problem.
                   Let Z be the set of all vector functions z (¢) which satisfy the conditions
                   (2)                          (a)   z(t) >0
                                                (b)   Be(t) + |C2() ds<e
                   where B and C are matrices and c is a constant vector. We now wish to
                   find a vector function z (¢) in Z which maximizes
                                                                         df
                                                                      a)
                                                               (z(t),
                                                          |
                   (3)
                                                            0
                      This is the problem wediscussed in the previous chapter. It was shown
                   there that there is a dual problem which furnishes a sufficient condition
                   that a z (¢) belonging to Z be a maximizing vector,or in other words, that
                   a feasible solution be optimal.
                      Let W be the set of vector functions w (¢) for which
                   (4)                         w(t) = 0
                                                                   T
                                               B’w(t) +C’ i} w(s)ds >a
                                                                   t
                   where B’ and C’ are the transposes of B and C. The dual problem is that
                                                          T
                   of finding the minimum of |              (w (t), c) dt, for we W.
                                                                                                              209
                                       BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                    Asweshowedin § 11 of Chapter 4, we have for all z and w in the respec-
                 tive classes Z and W,the inequality
                                           T                    T
                 (5)                     [|   Goad[| wood
                    If we can find two vector functions z and w for which (2.5) holds with
                 equality, they must yield the maximum and minimum,respectively, for
                 the two problems. Two such vector functions for which equality holds
                 will be said to be paired with each other. Thus, a sufficient condition that
                 a z belonging to Z be optimalis that it can be paired with some w in W.
                    For the auto-steel problem formulated above we have
                               1000                       0   —1        0      0                1
                 (6)  B=|0 000 ]C={ & —1 & la=
                               0010                       00 0 -I                              0
                 The dual system of inequalities is therefore
                                                        T
                 (7)               1, = ws (0) +d, |      w,(s) ds—1 > 0
                                                       t
                                              T                    T
                                   n=—| wa(s) ds + dy|” w5(s) ds = 0
                                             t                     t
                                                     T
                                   l, = WwW, ®—|       ws (s) ds > 0
                                                    t
                                              T                 T
                                   Lb| 1(s)ds—| w,(s)ds > 0.
                 We have chosen to call the components of w, wz, w,; and w, in order to
                 keep the connection with the inequalities z, << %2, 0 < %, 23 << x, clear.
                    The optimality conditions, i.e., the conditions that (2.5) hold with
                 equality, are:
                 (8)             If z; (t) > 0, then /; (t) = 0,   (+ = 1,2, 3,4)
                                 If z, (t) < x, (4), then w, (¢) = 0
                                 If 0 < x, (t), then w, (t) = 0
                                 If z, (¢) < x4 (¢), then w, (t) = 0
                 The following are equivalent to the optimality conditions:
                 (9)             If?;(¢)   > 0, then z (¢) = 0,     (¢ = 1, 2, 3, 4)
                                 If w, (¢) > 0, then z, (¢) = x,(t)
                                 If w, (t) > 0, then 0 = x, (¢)
                                 If w, (t) > 0, then z, (t) = x, (t)
                 210
                                     BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                      § 3. Delta-functions
                   Before we proceed to determinethesolution, let us discuss the use that
                 we will make of delta functions. It can easily happen that the general
                 problems discussed above have uosolutions if the sets Z and W are com-
                 posed only of vectors having components which are integrable func-
                 tions. In fact, as we shall later see, this is the usual case in the auto-steel
                 problem. This difficulty can be evaded by enlarging the sets Z and W so
                 that they contain vector “‘functions’’ whose components are sums of
                integrable functions and ‘“‘delta functions.’’ In these enlarged classes
                 the problems havesolutions. By a delta function concentrated at ¢, with
                weight w, which we denote by w06(¢ — t.), we mean an improperfunction
                such that
                                     t
                                                               Oift < tp
                                   I
                                       cod
                                          (Ss
                                             —
                                                to)
                                                   p
                                                     (s)
                                                         ds
                                                            =
                                                               wy
                                                                   (to)
                                                                       1f
                                                                         t
                                                                           >
                                                                              to
                for every function g continuousat ¢,. (For ¢ = ¢, the integral in undefined
                except when @ (fo) = 0, in whichcaseit is defined to be 0.)
                   The use of delta functions can be justified rigorously either by the
                alternative use of Stieltjes integrals, or by regarding the delta functions
                as obtained by completing the space of integrable functions by a process
                similar to that used in obtaining the real numbers from therationals.
                   The optimality conditions remain the same even when Z and W are
                enlarged in the above way. Weobservethat there is no harm in theviola-
                tion of the optimality conditions at isolated points or even in sets of
                measure zero when only measurable functions are allowed as components
                of z and w. But, when one of the vectors, w, for example, has a component
                w;which is a delta function at the point ¢,, then for azto be paired with w,
                the corresponding optimality conditions must besatisfied at the point ¢.
                   Weshall find that we never have to use delta functions concentrated
                at any point other than 0 to obtain an optimal z. Intuitively, this means
                that discontinuous changes are not necessary except at the beginning.
                     § 4. The solution
                   The procedure that we use will be to construct a numberof w-solutions
                which we can pair with 2’s belonging to Z and hence obtain solutions of
                our problem. Thechief difficulty occurs in constructing w-solutions with
                suitable properties. In this we are guided by a combination of guesswork
                and observation of properties that an optimal z should have. Guesswork
                could be eliminated at the expense of considering a very much larger
                numberof cases.
                   First of all, it is clear that we should always have z, = x,. To produce
                too muchsteel is not harmful. This tells us that we should have 2, (?)
                                                                                             211
                                               BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                                                             T
                     — 0 for all ¢; 1.e., w, (2) = |            w, (s) ds. The remaining inequalities of
                     (2.7) then become
                    (1)                         1, = wy (t) + 6, w,(t) —1>0
                        Shortly before 7 it is clear that we should be producing autossince %,
                    is the quantity we wish to maximize at time T. Hence, we will have z,
                     > 0, which implies that /, = 0. This alone will not give us sufficient
                     information to determine w, and wy.
                        Wefirst construct a w solution, which weshall call the basic w-solution,
                    with the property that /, = O near the end. This means that we must have
                    w, (I) = 0. Then by (4.1) we have
                                                                 1
                     (2)                            w, (t) = — (1 — e-&s (7-9/2)
                                                                by
                                                    Ws (t) — e—5,(T-t)/b,
                     Wesee that w., ws, and w, all remain positive as ¢ decreases. We must
                     check to see whether the inequality /, > 0 is satisfied. With the above
                     choice of w we have
                                       b                                 T —
                                                                                          2
                                  =                                                     2 (| — 2,(T-0)/0,
                     (3)       ——(1—e~>,(T—t)/bs) — —(7                         ) + b
                                1      by                                   b,          pali—é                     )
                     The quantity on the right side of this equation is positive for 7 — ¢ small
                     but is negative when 7 — is large. Let ¢, be the value of ¢ for which the
                     right side becomes zero. Then T — f, is the solution of the equation
                                                                     b
                                                                                      (T-t,)/o.)
                                                                                  e-%&
                                                                             —
                                                                          (1
                                                                     *)
                                                                 a
                                                            @
                                                        =
                                             T—to
                     (4)
                                                                      1
                        Thus we see that at ¢, we must abandon one of the equations J, = 0
                     and /, = 0. Let us try to choose w so that /, = 0 and /, = 0 before to. We
                     have
                                                                           elto—t)/b,
                                                                      (to)
                                                                 W,
                                                              =
                                                         (Z)
                                                     Ws
                     (5)
                                                                                         —t)/b,
                                                                                     eltg
                                                                                (to)
                                                                            W4
                                                                        b,
                                                                    —
                                                                  |
                                                             =
                                                         (¢)
                                                     We
                     To
                          verify
                                   that
                                          /, >
                                                 0
                                                    we compute
                                                                   its
                                                                           derivative.
                                                                                           We
                                                                                                 find
                                    dl,
                                                dW,
                                                                                   b,
                     (6)
                                   dt
                                         —b,
                                                dt
                                                      +
                                                          We. =
                                                                   1
                                                                     —(0,
                                                                               +
                                                                                   |
                                                                                        Ws (to)
                                                                                                 e(tg—t)/b,
                     212
                                                                                                                                                   BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                                                                Acondition sufficient to insure that /, > Ois that d/,/dt < 0 for all? < féo.
                                                                This will holdif
                                                                                                                                                                                       W,                  (to)      > -———-
                                                                   7)                                                                                                                               (t.) >                                        me
                                                                \                                                                                                                                                                 be + by by
                                                                which by(4.2) and (4.4) is equivalent to T — ¢, > 0,. This last inequality
                                                                can be checked by putting 0b, in place of T — ¢ in (4.3) and verifying that
                                                                the quantity thus obtained is positive. We have
                                                                @                                                                               A |(o.+ F2) a ent 90t) — |
                                                                                                                                                 b,i\4*'                                      a,                                                                                               *
                                                                                                                                                               bs                                                                                                     (                        b, *
                                                                                                                                                 — 2 2-0,b,/b,                                                              20, 0,/b,                   __                                     _                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
                                                                                                                                                             b2°                                                      é                                                     bee 7°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                Hence /, > 0 for all ¢ << ¢, with the above choice of w.
                                                                          Wealso see from (4.5) that w, and w, remain positive. Thus (4.5) will
                                                                give a Satisfactory choice of w until w, becomeszero. Let ¢, be the value
                                                               of ¢ when this happens. Then, by (4.2) and (4.4) we have
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               by +balds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                (9)                                                                                                     e (tg—t,)/0, =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (T — to)
                                                                          Before ¢, let us see whether we can choose w, = 0 and have/, = 0. We
                                                               see that w, > 0 and w, > 0. We have dl,/dt = b, dw,/dt < 0 so that
                                                               1, > 0, and dl,/dt = b, dw,/dt < 0 so that /, > 0. Hence this choice of w
                                                               will be valid for all ¢< ¢,.
                                                                          Our basic solution is summarizedin the following table. This table also
                                                               lists the properties that a z paired with this w solution must have. Any 2
                                                               with these properties gives a policy which,if feasible (i.e., satisfies the z
                                                               constraints), is optimal.
                                                                                           
                                                                                                                             t<t,                                                                                     tL          <t < lo                                                                              bg <t <T
                                                                                                       1,         > 0                                 Z,= 0                                              l, = 0                                                                                           i, = 0
                                                                                                       lL,        > 0                                 Z, = 0                                             lL,        > 0                                 Z, = 0                                            l, = 0
                                                                    (10)
                                                                                                       l,
                                                                                                                 =
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         l,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                       l, = 0                                                                                            lL,       = 0                                                                                    l,          > 0                                 zy = 0
                                                                                                   Ww, = 0                                                                                           W, > O                                             £, = Xs                                        Ww,           > O                                 Z, =
                                                                                                   Ww,            > O                                xX, = 0                                         Ww,            > 0                                x, = 0                                          Ws, > O                                          X%, = 0
                                                                                                   w, > O                                             Zg = %,                                        Wy,            > O                                 Zg = %,                                        Wy > O                                            fg ==
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                           
                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Figure 1
                                                                         Let us see how this table can be used to obtain a partial solution of the
                                                               auto-steel problem. For the momentlet us assume c, = 0. For ¢ < ¢, we
                                                               must have
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               213
                                                                                                                                            BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                                                            (11)                                                                          Z, = 0, 2, = 0, 23 = X%q, 24, = %4/04.
                                                             For t, < ¢ < t)» we must choose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X,—0, x,
                                                            (12)                                                             2, = Xq, %q = O, 23 = Xq, %q = 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                            This can be doneif and only if x, (¢,) — 0, x» (¢,) => 0. Let us assume that
                                                            this inequality is satisfied. Then for t, < ¢ < T we must have
                                                                                                                                                                                       X44 — by Xp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         —— , 23 == X4, 24 = O
                                                            (13)                                                           21 = Xq, 24 =
                                                                                                                                                                                                         bs
                                                            which is possible provided %, (t,) — 5, %2 (¢,) = 0. Thus we see that for
                                                            certain initial conditions we can obtain the optimal solution.
                                                                               § 5. The modified w solution
                                                                      As already has been noted, we run into trouble if x, (t;) — 0; 2 (¢,)
                                                              <0. To handle this case we consider a modification of the basic w solu-
                                                            tion of Fig. 1 above. Let #, be in the interval [¢,, 7]. For each such u,
                                                            we define a solution as follows:
                                                                      For uw) <t < T we let w (¢) be the sameas in the basic solution. For
                                                            t << Uo we choose w, (t) = 0. For ¢ <u, but near u» we choose w’,(t)
                                                             = 1/b, so that /, = 0. This choice will keep /, > 0 for a while before 7to.
                                                            We define #, to be the point where /, becomes 0 with this choice of w.
                                                            For t < u, we choose w so that /, = 0. It is easily seen that this choice
                                                            makes /, > 0,/, > 0, w; > 0 and w, > 0 for'all ¢ < u,. Hence, in this
                                                            way we obtain a w solution for each uw, in the interval[¢,, 7]. We observe
                                                            that for uo = ¢t,, 4, = +t, and this solution is identical with our basic
                                                            solution of Fig. 1. Note that u, depends continuously on up». Since for uo
                                                             — T,u, = T — b,, there is a wsolution for each wu, in the interval
                                                            [t1, T — by).
                                                                      These w solutions together with the properties of the corresponding z
                                                            solutions, are summarized in the following table:
                                                                          
                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                <u,                                         |                 Uy<t<Ug                                             Ug <t<T t,<t<to up<t<Tto<t<T
                                                                                        ee Sk-— _-
                                                                                l,>0\z,=0]|1,=0)                                                                                                                        1,=0 |                                                                 =0-
                                                                                lL >O0|24 =                                                        lL>Olz=-0                                                            1>0|2,=0:1,=0;
                                                                                l, = 0                                                             l, = 0}                                                              l, = 0                                                                         l= 0 |
                                                            (1)|                44 = 0                                                             i, > 0 4=0, 4=0 ,                                                                                                                                   i, >0 !24=0
                                                                            W, = 0                                                              W, = 0!                                                        WwW, > O01 4=% We >O                                                                                                          4 = 4%
                                                                            Ws, > O|x7, = 0                                                     ws, = 0!                                                       (We >0 };4,=0 'we>0                                                                                                           x=0
                                                                            W, > 0) 2, = %4 Wy > 0 | ag = 44) wi, > 0                                                                                                                                         Zg = %,                               Wy > 0 | 2, = %,
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                               Since ws, is a delta function at u,, we must have *#, (u,) = 0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                         
                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 2
                                                             214
                                                                                                                                                                                
                                     BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                   Note that if uw, > ¢o, then there is no ¢ satisfying the conditions of the
                third column; and if wu) = T thenthereis no ¢ satisfying the conditionsof
                the last columneither.
                     § 6. The equilibrium solution
                   A policy which seems plausible in some instances is the following:
                Make aninitial adjustment to bring x; down to zero in such a way that
                after the adjustment x, = 0, x,. If this is done, after the initial adjust-
                ment no increase in capacities is necessary and all available steel can be
                used for auto production. Such a policy would require for the w paired
                with it that /, (0) = 0 and /, (0) = 0, because in general both z, and z,
                will have to be delta functions. We shall construct a w solution withthis
                property.
                   First, we note that our basic w solution has this property when is
                such that ¢, = 0. This suggests that we try to choose
                                                                     B
                                                                  +
                                                          (T-/b,
                                                    ae-h
                                                 =
                                           w(t)
                (1)
                                                                                   inequalities
                                                                               the
                                                                            0,
                                                                         =
                                                                       /,
                                                                  that
                                                               so
                                                       chosen
                                                     is
                                                  w,
                                               If
                                   constants.
                               are
                             f
                         and
                       a
                where
                (4.1) become
                (2)            ly = d, wa () —(T—9 + by |was) ds 0
                               1, = dewalt) — | w4(s) ds = 0.
                                                  £
                If J, (0) = 1, (0) = 0, then
                (3)                         w, (0) = 7—>
                                                       b        b
                  We set EF = e-%7/% and from (6.1) — (6.3) derive the following two
                equationsfor a and p:
                (4)                 ba+(b,+6,7T\)p=T
                                    (6, + 6, 0,) Fa + (6, + 6,b,) 8 =T.
                A solution of these equations will give a w for which /, (0) = J, (0) = 0.
                Wehave
                (5)               a=TI}1       b,+6,T | =T [b, (6 —T)]
                                       A\l     6,+6,b,         A
                                  p=T bs                  l     = I [b, (1 — E) — 6, 6, E]
                                       A (bp + b, by) E1           A
                where
                                                                                           215
                                                            
                                     BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                             be             bo +b,T
                (6)    A= (by + By by) Edy + by 8, == (b, + 6, b,) (b, — 6, E — b, ET)
                Also
                (7)           A= (by + b, by) E (by %: T/: — b, — b, T)
                                > (by+ b, b,) E (b,+b, T —b, —b,T) =0
                   Nowlet us assume that J — t, > T > by. Then from (6.5) we see that
                a<0. Let us check to be sure that for the w we have defined w,(),
                w, (t), and w, (¢) are non-negative for 0<0¢< T. This is equivalent to
                verifying that 0< w, (t) << 1/b, and dw,/dt< 0. We have dw,/dt =
                a b,/b, 6% (T-)% < 0. Hence it will be sufficient to check that w, (T)
                >Oand w, (0) < 1/b,. Since T —t, > T, we conclude from (4.4) and
                (6.3) that
                                         T            T—to          b, + d,/b,
                                                    
                                                           
                                 =o=                            < ttlip
                (8)       w, (0)
                                    by + bb,        bp +d,          bp +b, 6,       1%
                                               T
                (9)      wy(L) =a + B = > bi [04 + 02/01) (1 —E) — 2] 20
                   Wealso must check that forO <i t¢< 7,/, >Oand/, > 0.
                Since
                (10)            dl,|dt = b, dw,/dt + 1—db,w,(t) = 1—d, 8
                and /,(T) = b, w,(T) > 0, we have /, > 0 for all ¢ in (0, T]. Similarly,
                we know that /, (T) = 6, w, (7) > 0. Hence, if we show that d¥J,/dt? < 0,
                we will have proved that /, > 0 for all ¢ in (0, 7]. We have
                (  )                    dt?  —a at b,         b,   = e
                 halaa
                This completes the proof that the w which we havedefinedis a solution.
                Its properties, together with those a z paired with it must have, are sum-
                marized in the following table:
                216
                                                                                                                                                   BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
                                                                                                                                                              i= 0                               |                                  O<t<Tf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1, = 0
                                                                                                                                                           l, = 0                                                 lL,        > 0                                       Z = 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l, = 0
                                                                                                                                                           l,=0                                                   l,         > 0                                       Z,= 0
                                                                (12)                                                                                                                                          WwW >O                                    ,              4=%,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              wz >O0                                    |             x, =0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              w, > 0                                                  X, = %,
                                                                                                                                                      Note: This solution is valid only
                                                                                                                                                                                   for IT = by.
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Figure 3
                                                                                    § 7. A short-time w solution
                                                                         The w solution which we construct next will be useful in finding the
                                                               solution of our maximum problem whenthetotal timeis short, T < ),.
                                                               This solution differs from those already constructed in that it allows x,
                                                               to be positive and z, to be a delta function concentratedat 0.
                                                                         ForO<t< letw,(t) =y, w, (t) = 1— b,y where 0 < y < 1/0,.
                                                               Then /, (4) = 0,2, (4) > OforO<t < T. Also
                                                               (1)                  1.) = by —(T—?t) (1— 2}, y) = [b, + 6, (T —t)) y —(T —2)
                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                               Now, if we choose y = bo beT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         then /, (0) = 0 and /, (t) > 0 for? > 0.
                                                                                                                                                                                  2                      1
                                                               Thus we obtain a solution of the system of inequalities (4.1). It is sum-
                                                              marized below together with the properties a z paired with it must have.
                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                            t=                                                                     O0O<'<T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                4, = 0
                                                                                                                                                         lL,       = 0                                          lL,        > 0                                       Z, = 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                l, = 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                l,         > 0                                       Z,= 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             W, > 0                                                  Z, = %,
                                                                        (2)                                                                                                                                  W, = 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             w, > 0                                                  Zg = Ms
                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                    Since w, is a delta function at
                                                                                                                                                     T, *,(T) = 0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                    Note: This solution is valid for
                                                                                                                                                                                  LT < 6, only.
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Figure 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               217
                                                BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                            § 8. Description of solution and proof
                         We now can give the complete solution to the original problem. There
                      are quite a few cases that we must considerseparately. The critical values
                      to and ¢,, which are defined by (4.4) and (4.9), depend on 7, but in sucha
                      way that for fixed 0,, b, and b,, T —t, and T —?, are constants.
                     Case I: T 1s large enough so that t, > 0. In this case we choose z, to be a
                      delta function concentrated at 0 to bring x; down to zero immediately.
                      This means that if the total time is long enough we should not keep any
                     steel in storage but should be using it to build moresteel plants. The use
                     of the delta function 1s permissible because /, = 0 for ¢ near 0. For
                     O<t<t,we let
                     (1)                        Z, = 0, 2 = O, 23 = %4, Zq = %4/4
                     thus keeping x, at zero level. At ¢, we must distinguish different subcases:
                     (2)                          TA:     %4 (t,) — 0, x, (t,) > 0
                                                  IB:     %4 (t,) — dy x2 (4,) << 0
                        In case IA we can produce autos at capacity without running out of
                     steel. Hence we let
                                                                                     X4—b, X-
                                                                                        
                     (3)                   £1 = Xo; Zz, = VO, £3 = X4, 2g = OT                 —_——_
                                                                                           by
                     for ¢; < ¢<. t,; and fort, <ti< T welet
                                                             X,—b,%
                                                                                             =O.
                                                                                     yy
                                                                                 =
                                                                              Bg
                                                         =,
                                                      2g
                                                 May
                                              =
                                          Zp
                     (4)
                                                                     2
                     This solution for Case IA is optimal because it can be paired with our
                     basic w solution of Fig. 1.
                        In Case IB we do not have enoughsteel to produce autos at capacity.
                    Hence we continue to produce no autos for ¢ > 4, 1.e.,
                                                                                       X4
                    (5)                        Z,= 0,2, = 0,23, = %, 244 =
                                                                                       b,
                    We do this until x,— 0}, x, becomes zero or ¢t = T — 0,4, whichever
                    happensfirst. If x, — 0, x, becomeszero at ¢’ then we choose z,; = %, 2.
                     = 0, 23 = %4, 2, = 0 thereafter. This solution is seen to be optimal by
                    pairing it with the w solution of Fig. 2 for which u, = ¢t’. As we haveal-
                    ready remarked there is such a solution no matter what ?¢’ is, so long as
                    t, <t' < T — 6,. If, on the other hand, x, (T — b,) — 6, x. (T — 0,4) <0,
                    then for 7 — 6, <t< T we choose
                                                      x4
                    (6)                        ay = pte = 0, 2g = Hy My = 9,
                                                        1
                    218
                                              BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                     This solution can be seen to be optimal by pairingit with the w solution
                     of Fig. 2, for which up = T, u, = T — by.
                     Case II: T ts such that t, < 0< to. As before we choose z, to be a delta
                     function concentrated at 0 to bring x; down to zero immediately. There-
                     after the solution is as before. There are two subcases:
                     (7)                            ITA:     x, (0) — b, x, (0) >0
                                                    IIB:     x, (0) — 6, x, (0) <0
                        In Case IIA welet z, = %, 1.e., produce autos at capacity. We use the
                     remaining steel to increase steel capacity before ¢, and to increase auto
                     capacity after ¢,. That is, forO <t < to we let
                                                                                   X,—b,%x
                                                                                    
                                                                                            =
                                                                                     *
                                                                               =
                                                                           2
                                                                         q,
                                                                       HX
                                                                    =
                                                                23
                                                             O,
                                                         =
                                                      2g
                                                 Xe,
                                              =
                                          Zy
                    (8)
                                                                                         by
                    and for t > to we let
                                                             Xq—04%
                                                                                                OO.
                                                                                            =
                                                                                         a
                                                                                    Xa
                                                                                 =
                                                                            a
                                                             Hh
                                                         =
                                                      22
                                                 Xo,
                                              =
                                          41
                    (9)
                                                                    4
                    This solution is optimal because it can be paired with our basic solution
                    of Fig. 1.
                       Case ITB 1s similar to IB. The sameprescription holds, and the solution
                    is paired with one from Fig.2.
                    Case III: T ts such that tp << O0< T — b,. There are three subcases:
                                                                                  C3
                                                   IIIA:     Cy—), Co > b>
                                                                                  be
                                                                                  Cs
                                                                                    4
                                                             —cC                          b,c
                                                              
                                                   ITIC:           “<< ¢,—biteg <-—.
                                                               b,                           bs
                       In Case IIIA weuse ourinitial stockpile of steel to increase auto capa-
                    city, 1.e., we let z, be a delta function concentrated at 0 bringing x, down
                    to zero. Thereafter, we let z,; = x, and use any remaining steel to increase
                    auto capacity, 1e.,
                    (11)                 21 — Xo, zg = =" £3 = X4, Zz, = 0.
                   This solution is optimal because it can be paired with the basic w solution
                   of Fig. 1.
                                                                                                                 219
                                           BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                      In Case IIIB wefind ourselves short on steel capacity. The policy and
                   proof are the same as in Case IB.
                      In Case IIIC we can make aninitial adjustment so that x, becomeszero
                   and x, = b, x,. We do this by choosing z, and z, to be delta functions
                   concentrated at 0. After that we let z; = x,, z, = 0, 23 = %4, 2, = O. This
                   solution is optimal because it can be paired with the equilibrium w solu-
                   tion of Fig. 3.
                   Case lV: T < by. There are three subcases which depend ontheinitial
                   values:
                                                                           b1 Cs
                                                 IVA: Cy— b,c, > ——
                                                                             be
                                                                            
                   (12)                           IVB: cy—b,c, > T
                                                          —€3                          1
                                                           
                                                 IVC:            <¢,—b,6, <>6,
                                                             b,                       b,
                      In Case IVA the solution and proof are the same as in Case IIIA.
                      In Case IVB we choose z, = 0 and z, = 0 for all ¢. As always welet
                   Z, == x,. We choosez, in any way suchthat z, (¢) < x, (t) and x, (7) = 0.
                   Thus, in this case the solution is not unique. Any solution of this form
                   can be seen to be optimal by pairing it with the w solution of Fig. 2 for
                  which #4, = T.
                      In case IVC wefind ourselves in an intermediate case, unable to follow
                  the policies suggested by IVA and B.In this case we makean initial ad-
                  justment of the steel stockpile down to the value c,’, using this steel to
                  increase auto capacity. Thereafter we choose 2, = %9, 22 = 0, 23 = %q,
                  andz, = 0. The value c,’ is determined so that x, (J) = 0. It is found that
                   (13)                        co! = by Cz — by (Cy — 0, Ce)
                                                        
                                                              6,+6,7T
                  has this property. This solution is optimal because it can be paired with
                  the short-time w solution of Fig. 4.
                  220
                                                                                                                                              BOTTLENECK PROBLEMS: EXAMPLES
                                                                                  SummaryInitial Adjustments
                                                               
                                                                 Cases| I:4,20                                                                      Hit, <0<%| Ill: <0<T—2},| IV: T <b,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                        A                             Adjust x, to 0 by                                                                                                         Bring x, to 0 by
                                                                                                      increasing %4.                                                                                              |             increasing %,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                “Build auto capacity”’.
                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                        B                             ‘“‘Build steel capacity”’.                                                                                                                                                                                     No initial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     adjustments.
                                                                                          
                                                                        C                             No Case                                            No Case                                                  Adjust so that x, = 0,;                                                                           Adjust %,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X%q = b,x, by                                                                           downward,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              increasing x, and                                                                      but not to 0,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X4.                                                                                    so that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x,(I) = 0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Increase %».
                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                             
                                                              
                                                                       After the initial adjustments the optimal policy can be determined by
                                                             a priority system. Before ¢#,, building steel capacity, 1.e., 24, has first
                                                             priority. This continuesafter ¢, until either x, > 6, x, ort = by, whichever
                                                             comesfirst. When this happens, which maybeat¢,, of course,first priority
                                                             is given to auto production, z,. This will use up all available steel unless
                                                             X4 (t,) > 5, x2 (t,). In that case second priority is given to buildingsteel
                                                             capacity until the time ¢,. After ¢, second priority is given to building
                                                             auto capacity.
                                                                                                             Bibliography and Comments for Chapter VII
                                                                      § 1. The results of this chapter were obtained in collaboration with
                                                             R. S. Lehman in an unpublished paper; R. Bellman and R. S. Lehman,
                                                             Studies on Bottleneck Problems in Production Processes, Part I, P-492,
                                                            RAND Corporation, 1954.
                                                                     An analysis of similar type, but more intricate, resolving a variational
                                                            problem in this general class, may be found in R. S. Lehman, Studies in
                                                            Bottleneck Problems in Production Processes, Part II, P-492, RAND
                                                            Corporation, 1954.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 221
                              CHAPTER VIII
                A Continuous Stochastic Decision Process
              § 1. Introduction
            As we haveseen in ChapterII, the formulation of the goldmining prob-
           lem in its discrete form leads to a number of unsolved problemsin con-
           nection with the three-choice problem, the non-linear utility problem,
           and many others we could formulate. We turn, therefore, to a continuous
           version of the problem in the hopes of overcomingthese difficulties by use
           of the more powerful tools of continuity. As we shall see, we can now
           resolve the corresponding questions in complete detail and thereby obtain
           a clear insight into the structure of optimal policies. The information we
           obtain concerning the structure of policies can now be used to furnish
           useful approximationsto the original discrete process.
            Onevery interesting andsignificant fact emerges. Whereastheoriginal
           discrete problem had certain lineay aspects which made variational ana-
           lysis difficult, at least in the case where we considered expected return,
           the continuousversion is sufficiently non-linear to permit us to employ a
           variational approach in theclassical manner, with certain modifications
           required by the presence of constraints. However, in carrying through
           this approach, our knowledge of the form of the solution for the discrete
           case is of great service in telling us in advance what to expect to find. It
           is a combination of the two techniques, old and new, which permit a
           successful attack upon the problem.
            Before turning to the method we shall actually employ, weshall discuss
           two alternative approaches, each possessing certain features of difficulty
           which render them inappropriate.
            It is perhaps equally as important to know which methodsfail, and
          why, as it is to know methods which work. In more general decision pro-
          cesses of this type, a correct formulation of a continuous version is not
          trivial. Particularly is this true in the case of multi-stage games of con-
          tinuous type.
            There are many different possible formulations, and the correctnessof
          an approach must be judged not only on the groundsof its mathematical
          rigor, but also on the grounds of analytic difficulty. If we do not have a
          systematic means of resolving specific problems, we do not have satis-
          factory theory.
          222
                               CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                  After this preliminary discussion, we shall turn to the approach we
                shall actually employ, which is a compromise between the two prelimi-
                nary methods.
                  Ajustification of our approachlies in the fact that we can demonstrate
                that the limit of the discrete process, in a suitable sense, is the continuous
                process we discuss. Weshall, however, not discuss in this volume these
                important and interesting questions.
                    § 2. Continuous versions—I: A differential approach
                  Let us now proceed to discuss some possible continuous analogues of
                the functional equation of (5.1) of Chapter II.
                  Our basic assumption in this and the following sections will be that
                each operationis to have a high probability of obtaining a small amount
                of gold and leaving the machine undamaged. In other words, we re-
                nounce any hope ofsolving our problem for all values of the parameters,
                and consider, instead, a small region of the parameter space, (71, 72, G1, Ye).
                  We introduce the quantities
                  1 — q,6 = the probability of obtaining 7, x 6 and leaving the machine
                              undamaged if Anaconda is mined,
                  1 — q, 6 = the probability of obtaining 7, y 6 and leaving the machine
                              undamaged if Bonanza is mined.
               where qg, and gq, are positive and 6 is a small enough positive quantity so
               that 1 — g,6 and 1 —q,6 are probabilities, and 7,6 and 7,6 are less
               than one.
                  Withf(x, y) as before, we have the functional equation
                                        A:   (1—q, 6) (7, x6 + f(x —7, x6, y))
               (1)    f(%y) = Max |,
                                          ©  (L—420) (72 V0 + f(%, ¥— 79 4))
               This equation is precisely (5.1) of Chapter 2 for these new parameters.
               Proceeding formally, on the assumption that f has continuous partial
               derivatives, we have, for small 6, the approximate equation
                                   A: f(x,y) +6(7,%—4,f(%, vy) —11 x ef/ox) + 0 (6?)
               (2) f(x, y) = Max   B:             6                               7     2
                                     L(x,Y) +0 (129—Gof(x, ¥) —rey OffOy) -- 0 (0%)
               The limiting form as 6 — 0 is the equation
                                            A: 74% —q,f—1™|x ies
               (3)               0 = Max
                                            B: ry¥—Qf—rey af]oy
                  This approach does not seem to be a fruitful one because of the diffi-
               culty of establishing existence and uniqueness theorems for functional
               equations of this type.
                                                                                       223
                                                                           CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                                 § 3. Continuous versions—II: An integral approach
                                           Let us now consider a diametrically opposed approach. Let Sy denote
                                     some sequence of A (or Anaconda)-choices and B (or Bonanza)-choices
                                     totalling N in number. Set
                                           Pnx (x, y) = the probability of surviving N stages and ending in the
                                                                            state represented by (xwx, ynx), using Sy, upon starting
                                                                            in state (x, ¥).
                                           Ry (x, y)                 = expected return from N stages using Sy, starting in state
                                                                            (x, ¥).
                                           If Sy actually consists of the first N choices of an optimal policy, we
                                     obtain forf(x, y) the functional equation
                                     (1)                               f(%, ¥) = Rn (x, y) + 7 bux (%, Y) f (4x, Ye)
                                     If N 6, where 6 is as above, is chosen to remain finite as 6 0 and
                                     N-—> oo, andset equal to #, the analogue of (2.1) is a functional equation
                                     of the type
                                     (2)        f(x,y) = Max [Rs(x, y, t) + |[flr ys) dGs (r,s, 2,9, 8)
                                                                               S                                               r=0           JS=0
                                     where S denotes a continuous policy over the interval [0, ¢] and dGs is a
                                     transition probability determined by this policy.
                                           Functional equations of this type occur in the general theory of sto-
                                     chastic processes. We shall not pursue this approach in this volumebe-
                                     cause of the many difficulties involvedin justifying this equation and in
                                     defininggeneral continuouspolicies. Instead, we shall employ an approach
                                     intermediate between the differential and the integral approach
                                     whichyields a functional equation bearing the samerelation to (2) as the
                                     diffusion or heat equation bears to the Chapman-Kolmogoroff equation
                                    in the theory of diffusion processes.
                                          Ajustification of this approachis the fact that it can be demonstrated
                                    that the solution of the discrete process approachesthe solution given by
                                    the continuous process as 6 —> 0. However, as stated above, weshall not
                                    discuss this question here.
                                                § 4. Preliminary discussion
                                          Let us continue to use the simple equation of (2.1) as our model for the
                                    following discussion. According to the solution discussed earlier in Chapter
                                    II, the A- and B-regions are separated by the boundary curve
                                                                                                                       1,    %                                      Yo
                                    (1)                                           Ls: (1— 4, 6) 7 m8)
                                                                                                                            1                                          Je
                                    224
                                                                                                                           CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                                             which, as 6 —> 0, approachesthe line
                                                             {2)                                                                                                                           L. — = —
                                                                       For each 6 > 0, the optimal policy has the following form:
                                                                        “If below L, continue using the A-policy until in the B-region, above
                                                             L,;. Then use the B-policy until in the A-region, below L;, and so on;
                                                             similarly if above L, to start.”
                                                                       Geometrically:
                                                                                                                           Y{                B-region                                                                                                                                  Ls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (x,y)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               A-region
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                           0                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Figure |
                                                            The limiting form of this policy as 6 — 01s the following:
                                                                       “Tf (x, y) is below L, use A until the line L is reached, then continue
                                                            along L thereafter; if (x, y) is above L, use B until the line L is reached,
                                                             then continue along L thereafter.”’
                                                                                                                              y                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                                      B-region
                                                                                                                                                                       (x,y)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~<                            —- (X,Y)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A-region
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                              0                                                                                                                                                      X
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 2
                                                                      Let us observe that a policy of this type, which requires motion along
                                                            L, is not included in the set of policies associated with any nonzero 0.
                                                            These policies, allowing only the use of A or B, yield broken-line paths
                                                            consisting of horizontal and vertical pieces, as in Fig. 1.
                                                                      It is clear, however, that a path such as that given in Fig. 2 may be
                                                            arbitrarily closely approximated by an optimal policy as 6 — 0.
                                                                      This suggest the important point that a continuous version of theori-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 225
                                                               CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                ginal discrete problem may not possess an optimal policy yielding a
                                maximum return. Instead there may only exist a sequence of policies
                                yielding a supremum-unless wesuitably broaden the conceptof a policy.
                                The natural way to accomplish this extension 1s to allow for the mixing of
                                decisions, in some suttable sense, at each time.
                                         § 5. Mixing at a point
                                    The introduction of mixing at a point is, however, with no intention to
                                pun, a mixedblessing, since it carries along with it a numberof difficulties
                                of both physical and mathematical nature. Mathematically, we find
                                ourselves confronted by the samedifficulties that made us wish to bypass
                                the integral formulation of § 3; physically, we are reluctant to accept a
                               policy which involves mixing decisions as one applicable to a problem
                               where a choice of one or the other decision is required.
                                    To avoid simultaneously the conceptual difficulties of both mathema-
                               tical and physical origin, let us employ an interpretive device which has
                               been used before in a very similar situation. The essence of this deviceis
                               the observation that, under certain natural continuity assumptions,
                               mixing decisions at a point is equivalent to mixing decisions over small
                               intervals about the point.
                                    Weshall assume then, to construct our mathematical model, that we
                               are considering a process which requires at the times ¢ = 0,4, 24,etc.,
                               that we determine the proportion of the following timeinterval of length
                               A which will be devoted to A and B respectively. Thus, over a typical
                               interval [kA, kA + A], we devote the first part, [kA, RA + q, A] to the
                               use of A; and over the second part [kA + 9,4, kA + A], B is used:
                                                                                           A                             B
                                                                                                                         at
                                                                                                         ‘    ’
                                                                                                            |                          |
                                                                                                            |                            |
                                                                            kA                  kA +9,A                          (A+ 1)A
                                                                                                    Figure 3
                               The choice of g, will depend upon k, or morespecifically upon x (kJ),
                               and y (kA), and & itself, if the processis finite.
                                    Assuming that 4 is small, so that the process is sufficiently well de-
                               scribed byfirst-order effects, we shall in the limit as 4 — 0 obtain setof
                              differential equations which wewill use to define our continuousprocess.!
                              A continuous policy will now be equivalent to a function q,(¢).
                                   In the next chapter, we shall derive the differential equations. To
                              illustrate the power of the method weshall, in turn, solve problemscor-
                              responding to the two-choice problem, to the two-choice problem for a
                                   1   Recall the corresponding comment in Chapter VII.
                              226
                  CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
         finite number of stages, to the two-choice problem with a nonlinear
         utility function, corresponding to the problem discussed in Exercise 1
         of Chapter II, and to the three-choice problem of § 13 of that chapter.
         Although the analysis is quite detailed, the guiding ideasare simple.
           To justify the use of this formalism, it should be shown that the con-
         tinuous process obtained in this way is actually the limit of the original
         discrete process in a natural sense. This will be discussed in the second
         volume.
            § 6. Reformulation of the gold-mining process
           Let us now proceed to carry through the program outlined in the pre-
         ceding sections. An interesting feature of the mathematics will be the
         continued interplay between the techniques of the classical calculus of
         variations and those of dynamic programming.
           Let us, to clarify the issue, rephrase the problem weare considering:
           ‘At each of the time instants ¢ = kA weshall have to makea decision
         concerning the proportion of the followinginterval of length 4 which will
         devoted to the use of the machine in mine A andto the use of the machine
         in mine B. This involves the choice of a fraction g,, which depends upon
         the amounts of gold in the two mines at time /, and upon ¢ itself, if the
         processis finite.
           Wearbitrarily assume that once this proportion g, has been chosen, the
         first part of the interval [kA, (k + q,) A], is devoted to use of the machine
         in A, and the second part, [(k + o,) A, (k + 1) A], to use of the machine
         in B, If x is the amountof gold in mine A at time £4, there is a probability
         1 — q,q@ ,4 that an amount 7, « g, A is mined, and that the machine is
         undamaged; and a probability q, g, A that no gold is mined and that the
         machineis irretrievably damaged. If mine B contains y at time kA there
         is a probability 1— 9g. y, 4 that the amount 7, y gy, J is obtained, and
         that the machine is undamaged; and a probability q, y, J that the opera-
         tion ceases, where y, = 1 — q.
          The problem is to determine the sequence of operations which maxi-
         mizes the expected amount of gold mined before the machine is damaged.”’
            § 7. Derivation of the differential equations
          It is easily seen that if A is small, permuting the order of operations
         in [RA, (k + 1) A] is a second-ordereffect. It is this feature which allows
         mixing overintervals to perform the function of mixingat a point.
          A policy now consists of a sequence {g, (RA)}, k = 0,1, 2, .... For
         any given policy,let
                                                   227
                                                          CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                  x (t) = amount of gold remaining in A provided the operation has
                                                 continuedto #,
                                 y (t) = amount of gold remaining in B provided the operation has
                                                 continuedtof,
                                 # (t) = probability that the machine survives until /, 1e., that the
                                                 operation continues until ¢,
                                 f(t) = expected amount of gold mined up to time#,
                             where ¢ = n4,n =0,1,2,....
                                 Ignoring the second-order terms in A, we have
                             (1)               x (t+ A) = x(t) —11. G1 (4) x(t) A
                                               y(é+ 4) = yl) —12 Ga (t) y (t) A
                                               P(t+ 4) = Ph) (1—1 91 4) A — 42 G2 (4) A)
                                               fté+A=fO+A0lMAn*«OA+enyOIA
                             Letting A — 0, we obtain the system of differential equations
                             (3)               dx|/dt = — q,(t) r, x (2),                                                              x (0) = Xo,
                                               dy|dt = — 2 (t) 2 ¥ (t),                                                                y (0) = Yo,
                                               dp|dt = — p (t) [1 (2) G1 + Pa (2) Qe],                                                 p(0) =1
                                               dffadt=PpHigildnxQH+ grey],                                                            f(0) =0
                             Wenowtake these equations as the defining equationsof our process, and.
                             ignore their formal origin. The problem weset ourselves is that of deter-
                             mining ~, = Q,(t), where
                            so as to maximizef(T). A case of particular importance is T = oo.
                                 Weshall derive similar equations for the three-choice problem in § 12
                            below.
                                     § 8. The variational procedure
                                 Let gy, and g, be functions furnishing the maximum? andlet
                            (1)                                                    gi = pi + Bi(2),
                            where é is a small positive quantity, and £,, B, are two functionsof ¢
                            satisfying for all ¢ > 0 the conditions
                                                                   0O<@mtefi<1,6,+8,=0
                            (2)
                            (which implies| 6; | < 1/e), so that the g; are also admissible ’s.
                                 2  It is easy to show, as a consequenceof the uniform boundedness of the function
                            gy, (t),   that the maximum is attained.
                            228
                                                     CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                               It follows that B: (t) < Oif q: (¢) = 1, Bi (t) > O if g; (t) = 0, and f; can
                          be of either sign if 0 < qi: (¢) < 1, the region where free variation is per-
                          mitted. Performing the variation, we find readily that
                          (3) x(t) = x (t) (l—er,B,(t)) + 0 (e)
                                 y(t) = y(t) (1 —e 7Bs () + 0 (e)
                                p(t) =p(t)(l—eq,B, (t) — € q2 By (t)) + 0 (€)
                                f(T) —f(TeeF(t)(QiBi) + Bel) +nBiOpl*
                                       + 1B,(t) p (t) v t) + 7, By(t)                                       t)  + 72Be(t)                 y (t))} dt
                                                                                                                                                  + 0 (e)
                          where we haveset
                                                                                                            ds
                                                                                                      (s)
                                                                                                  Bi
                                                                                               ,
                                                                                            |
                                                                                       =
                                                                                  (t)
                                                                            Bi
                          (4)
                          and the bars refer to the perturbed variables.
                              Integrating by parts to eliminate the B;(¢), we find
                          6)          fF) f(T) =e | 1K.BO + KsBr Ol dt + 0)
                          6)         KW=—a[fijds+np)x2)—n[oe
                                     K,(             —a{£0\ds+1,p(T y(D)—n |b'(
                              Since f(T) —f(T) < 0, we see that whenever K;(¢) > K; (t) we must
                          have qi (t) = 1, q; (t) = 0. These relations yield implicit equations for
                          gi and q;. In the next section we shall discuss the behavior of the K-
                          functions in more detail, in order to determine q,(¢) explicitly.
                                  § 9. The behavior of K;.
                              The fundamentalrelation is
                          (1)               d/dt (Ky — K2) = (41 — @) f(t) —B' () a9 — 11 ¥)
                                                                        = [91 %2¥ — 271 *].
                              3  The term o (ce) denotes a function of ¢ which approaches 0 as « — 0 for all?
                          in [0, 7].
                                                                                                                                                       229
                                                       CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                           Thus a “mixed policy”’ (one for which more than oneof the q; 1s positive
                           for a given ¢t, which implies K, (¢) = K,(¢t)) can be optimal only on the
                           line 9,72 V = q27, x. This line is precisely the boundary line that one
                           obtains by passage to the limit from the solution in the discrete case as
                           A — 0, as in § 4.4
                                If a mixed policy is pursued along theline, y, and g, must be chosento
                           stay on this line, which means that the slope, s = y/x, must be kept
                           constant. Since
                           (2)                     dldt (y/x) = y'/x — (x’/x) s (t) = [71 G1 — re 2] S
                           we see that we must have
                                                                                     V9                         11
                                                                                
                                                                                                            
                           (3)                                      i=
                                                                                                P2 =
                                                                                rt7,’                      m+,
                                    § 10. The solution for T=co
                               With these preliminaries out of the way, let us determine the optimal
                           policy for the infinite process, 7 = oo. The infinite problem is, as usual,
                           simpler than the finite case because of the homogeneity introduced by
                           infinite time; after any initial actions, we are confronted by a problem of
                           the same type, with different initial values. Let us note that a conse-
                           quenceof this, and the homogeneity of the equations with respect to x
                           and y, is that the decision at any point is a function only of the slope
                           S = y/x.
                               Let us begin by observing that if policy A is ever used abovethe line
                           91%. VY = G27, x in the (x, y)-plane, it is used thereafter. This follows im-
                           mediately from (9.1) which shows that K, — K,is increasing when q,72 y
                           —G27, % > 0. Since use of A decreases x and leaves y unchanged, once
                           kK, > K, the use of A maintains the inequality.
                               Near the y-axis, however, the use of A continually is not as rewarding
                           as continual use of B. For with g, = 1, gy, = 0, for t > 0, we have
                           (1)                                       x(t) = Xo e711!
                                                                     y (t) = Yo
                                                                     p(t) = ena
                                                                    f(t) = , 1, Xo e~MN8 E-US AS
                           and thus
                                                                    fa (00) = 1% %o/(Qi + 11).
                               4  Having been led to expect the appearance of this line as a consequence of
                           the analysis of the discrete case, it is relatively easy to spotit.
                          230
                       CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
            However, 9; = 0, 2 = | for all é yields similarlyfz (co) = 72 yo/(G2 + 72).
            For yo/%o sufficiently large fz (co) > fa (co). Thus, there is a region near
            the y-axis where B 1s used.
             This region where B is used extends down to the line 9,72. y = q2 7, X.
            To prove this we observe that a mixed policy cannot be pursued above
            the line, and that if A is ever used abovetheline it is always used there-
            after. Using A indefinitely, however, would eventually take (x, y) into
            the region near the y-axis where B is known to be optimal, a contradic-
            tion. Hence B is always used above the line. Similarly, below the line A
            is always used.
             Whenthe line q, 72 V = 9271 * 1S reached, the point (x, vy) must remain
           on the line thereafter. For if not, then an A policy must be used ina B
            region or vice versa, which is impossible. Hence, on the line itself the
           mixed policy of (9.3) must be employed.
             Wehave thus demonstrated
           THEOREM 1. With reference to the equations (7.2) and the constraints (7.3),
           the maximum value off(oo) ts attained by use of the policy
           (2)         Qi=lforgrny<@nx,
                       Pe = 1fordrey > 921%,
                              Ye         al
                              
                       anon?prNRYAhn.
             Note that gy, and ¢, are determined almost everywhere by the above
           arguments, and hence are essentially unique. The above constructive
           derivation of the solution furnishes an alternative existence proof.
               § 11. Solution for finite total time
             In finding the solution for finite T, we shall begin by determining what
           policy is used last. Since an optimal policy has the property that its
           continuation after any initial part is also optimal, we shall considerfirst
           the case where T is small. We have
           (1        F(T) = [° B(s) [gals) %1 #15) + Gal) ray (9)]
                          =r¥0 |gals) ds + r2¥o [- ga(9) ds + o(7)
           for T close to 0.
           It follows then that for small 7 the maximum is obtained by taking
           Qi (s) = 1, G2 (s) = O for 7, Xo > 72 yo and g,(s) = 0, Me (s) = 1 for 72 Vo
            > 7, Xo. As is to be expected, for processes of small duration expected
           gain, without worry about termination, is the determining factor.
                                                                 231
                                                                                                                           CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                                                       If 9, = gz the lines 7, y = 7, x and 9, 7%. V.= 927, x coincide, and the
                                                             optimal policy is easily found to be the same as that for J’ = oo.
                                                                       Let us consider the general case where g, ~ q2. Assume, without loss
                                                             of generality, that the line 7, y = 7, x lies above the line q, %. vy = 271 X.
                                                             The positive quadrantthen is divided into three regions, which we label
                                                             I, II, III. (Fig. 4).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Toy                                    Xx
                                                                                                                       yea                                                                                                                                                                de q
                                                                                                                                                                Ul
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Figure 4
                                                                      Asbefore, it follows that in region I a B-policy once used must be con-
                                                             tinued thereafter, while in regions II and III the same holds for an
                                                            A-policy. Also, in regions I and II an A-policy is usedif the time remaining
                                                             is sufficiently small, and in III a B-policy under the same conditions.
                                                             Fromthiswe conclude that an A-policy is always usedin I, and aB-policy
                                                             always while in III.
                                                                       Let us now establish that an optimal policy never switches from A to
                                                            B. Let us suppose otherwise and let ¢, be the time at which the change
                                                            occurs. Since at ¢, A is terminated, the point (x (to), y (¢o)) must be in
                                                            region I, or on the boundary between I and II. Using B will keep the
                                                            point (x (t), y (¢)) in I for all ¢ > ¢, since we know that B once used in I
                                                            must be continued. However, this contradicts the fact that A is used in I
                                                            wheneverthe time remainingis sufficiently small. Similarly, the combina-
                                                            tion of using the mixed policy and then B cannotoccur,since the change-
                                                            over must occur on the boundary between I and IJ, and then B is used
                                                            thereafter in region I, a contradiction.
                                                                      This reduces the number of types of solutions to six: A always; B
                                                            always; the mixed policy followed by A; A then the mixed policy and
                                                            finally B; B then the mixedpolicy and then A; B followed by A.
                                                                      Let ¢, be the value of ¢ at which the last change of policy is made in an
                                                            optimalstrategy, 1f such a change occurs. For tj <¢< 7, we must have
                                                            Q, (t) = 1, y2 (t) = 0. We now compute the value of K, (to) — Kg (to).
                                                            We have fori, <i<T,
                                                            232
                                        CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                    (2)                  x (t) = x (to) e~"0), y (£) = ¥ (to)
                                         P(t) = P (to) e~ a &%),
                                        f(t) = BP (to) e- Gtr) Et) 11 x (to)
                    and, after some simplification,
                                                                                     Ge
                                                                                  
                    (3)    Ky (tc) — Ko (to) = P (to) 71 x (te) (1 _                        Jeter(T-t,)
                                                                                  Mat"
                                                                                                de         Yeo]
                                                                                             
                                                                                        7 a+r              71 X (to)
                       For any fixed point (x (¢o), y (¢0)) in II, the right side is positive for
                    I’ — t, small, and negative for T — ¢, large. It is equal to zero for pre-
                    cisely one value of J —?,. This zero determines when the changeover
                    occurs. Whenit occurs, A is used for the remaining time, with any of the
                    six beginnings above, depending uponthe location of the initial point.
                          § 12. The three-choice problem
                       The continuous version of the three-choice problem mentioned above
                    in § 13 of Chapter II leads via the same formal processas given in §7 to the
                    following. Given
                    (1)   dx/dt = —[qy, (4) 11 + @s (2) 79] x (2),                            x (0) = Xo
                          dy|dt = — [2 (t) 72 + Ps (t) v4] v (2),                             y (0) = Yo
                          ap|dt = — p (t) [p. (¢) 41 + G2 (4) 92 + Ps (4) Gs],                2 (0) = 1,
                          df[dt = p (t) [(p1 (¢) 71 + @s (2) 7s )x (t) + (Po (f) V2 + Ps (4) 4) ¥ (2)]
                                                                                             f(0) =0,
                    where,forall ¢,
                    (2)                           Qtitgtg=l1, gid,
                    It is required to determine the qi (#) so as to maximizef (7).
                       Weshall consider only the case where 7° = oo.
                       As before, let us set gi = gi + efi, and B; (t) = |, fi (s) ds
                    Weobtain
                    (3)               x          x
                                      y (t) = y (t) (1 —e 72 By (t) — € 73 Bg(#)) + 0 (€)
                                      p (t) = pt) (1 — e X a Bi(t)) + o(¢)
                                      p
                                                                   i=1
                                      afjat = p [(p1 ry + Ps ¥3) x + (Pz to + Ps 1) y]
                                                                                                                  233
                                        CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                    Consequently, following the same techniqueas before, we obtain
                    (4)          f(T) —f(T) =e | (KiB, + KaBe + KoBal dt + 0 (0
                    where
                    (6)    KO=—a[sfdstnp()x(D—n [° p(s)x(9)as
                           Ki) =—a|f(s) dst rnp D)y(Z)—n|p(s) 9) ds
                           Ks) =—95 |S'(8) ds + 2 (D) fro x (7) + rey (TY
                                                            —[°°() fre ¥ 65) + rey (9)
                          § 13. Some lemmasand preliminary results
                       Thestatementsinthelemmasbelowconcerningthedependence of the
                    upon the K; are, of course, taken to hold almost everywhere.
                    Lemna 1. IfK; (t) > K; (¢), then gi (t) = 1 or g; (t) = O.
                    PrRooF: Let £ be theset of ¢ for which the assertion does not hold. Let
                    fbi = 1, Bj = — 1 for ¢in E, and let the 6's be zero otherwise. The varia-
                    tion is admissible for ¢ sufficiently small and makesf(T) —f(T) positive
                    if m(E) > 0.
                    Lemna 2. IfK; (¢) > K;j(t) for] 41, theng;: = 1.
                       The proof follows immediately from the above.
                    Lemna3. Ifthere 1s a7 such that K; (t) < K; (0), then gi = 0.
                       Again a simple consequence of Lemma1.
                       Let us now compute the derivatives of the K;. A straight-forward cal-
                    culation yields the symmetric results
                    (1)                           Ky" (t) = P1Cy pe + Co Ga]
                                                  K,' (t) = p[-—-Ci g1 —C3 Gs]
                                                 Ks’ (t) = p[—C.91+ Cs 92]
                    where we haveset
                    (2)                          C1 =UMl2V—Gar x
                                                 Co = M14 ¥ — (93 %1 — 91") X
                                                 Cs = (Ys %2— 92 %4) VY — Gas X
                    234
                                                                                                                                                  CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                                                                    The relative positions of the three lines C; = 0 are determined by the
                                                                         quantity
                                                                        (3)                                                                                                      D = 1 %21%3 + G21 %4— 93 "112
                                                                         If we assume that all three lines lie in the positive quadrant, a straight-
                                                                        forward calculation shows that if D > 0 the lines have the position shown
                                                                        in Fig. 5, while if D < 0 they le as shownin Fig.6.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                   Figure 5                                                                                                                                                       Figure 6
                                                                                    It is possible for both cases D > 0, D < 0 to occur. The case where one
                                                                        of the lines C, = 0, C; = 0 hes outside the positive quadrant yields an
                                                                        immediate simplification of the following arguments without changing
                                                                        the over-all structure. Consequently, we shall discuss in detail only the
                                                                        abovecases.
                                                                                               § 14. Mixed policies
                                                                                   As above, we denote by the term “‘mixed policy”’ a situation in which
                                                                        some of the gi have values different from 0 and 1. By an A-policy we
                                                                        shall mean gy, = 1, a B-policy gy, = 1, andaC-policy y; = 1. Let us prove
                                                                        Lemma 4. No optimal policy contains a mixture ofA, B, and C policies.
                                                                        ProoF: Let us assume that in some interval we have simultaneously
                                                                       P1, Po, P3 > O. In this interval we must have K, = K, = Ky.
                                                                                   This yields
                                                                       (1)                                                                                                                                        Pitoto=l
                                                                                                                                             Ky’ — Ky’ = £[Ci g, + Ci Ge + (C2 + Cs) G3] = 0
                                                                                                                                             Ky —Ky’ = PlCegi + (Ci —Cs) Ge + Co Hs] = 0
                                                                                   The solution for 94, 2, 3 1S, if C; —C, —C, £0,
                                                                                                                                                  —Cs                                                                           _                                      —C,                                                                        _                                      Cy
                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                       (2)                     =
                                                                                                                                C.—C,—C,'"* C,—C,—-C,'"*~ C,—6,—G,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    235
                                                                                                      
                                        CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                    Since the g: must be positive in this interval, we must have C,, —C,,
                    and —C,all of the samesign. It is easily verified upon referring to Figs.
                    2 and 3 that in both cases D > 0, D < 0, this can never occur.
                       Furthermore, C,; —C, —C, = 0 only if the lines C, = 0, C, = 0,C,
                    = 0 coincide. When this occurs the problem is equivalent to the two-
                    choice problem.
                       Let us now investigate the possibility of using mixed policies involving
                    only two of the three policies, A, B, or C.
                    LEMMA 5. Concerning the mixing of two and only two policies, we have the
                   following results:
                    (3)   (a)   A mixture of A and B 1s permissible only along
                                C, = 0, where yy = 7o[(71 + 72), Po = 11/(%1 + 72).
                           (b) A mixture of A and C 1s permissible only along C, = 0, where
                                                       Yag— Vz                          "
                                           QQ, = >3FOO
                                                    Vy + 14-715                  Vy +14 —T7z
                           (c)  A mixture ofB and C 1s permissible only along C, = 0, where
                                                                                          
                    ProoF: If 91, ¢, > 0,93; = 0, we must have K, = K, > Kj. In an
                    interval where this occurs,
                    (4)                       0O= Ky’ — kK,’ = p[C, (1 + ¢)]
                    Hence C, = 0. The values of y, and ¢, which keep (x, y) on this line are
                    determined as in the two-choice case. The other assertions in Lemma 5
                    are obtainedsimilarly.
                          § 15. The solution for infinite time, D > 0
                       Having obtained these auxiliary results, we now proceed to find the
                    solution to the problem of maximizingf(oo). We shall assume that 7; >
                    7,, since the case 7, > 7, can be handled by interchangingthe roles of x
                    and y and A and B. The degenerate case, 7, = 7, will be discussed
                    separately.
                          Let us make an initial observation that when 7, > 7, the mixed
                    AC policy is never used, for by (14.3) y, and m3 cannot both bepositive.
                    The solution takes two distinct forms depending upon whether D > 0 or
                    236
                                           CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                      D <0. Let us begin by considering D > 0. Weshall establish the prin-
                      cipal results in a series of lemmas.
                      Lemma6. In an optimal policy, B 1s used near the y-axis.
                      ProoF: There is a region near the y-axis where A is not used. Forif
                     C, >0,C, >0 and A is used, 1e., g, (t) = 1, we have K,’ = 0, K,’
                      <0,K,’ < 0. This means that AK, remainsthe largest for t, >t. Hence,
                      if A is used in this region, it must be pursued thereafter. Let us now
                      compute the results of a continued A-policy, a continued B-policy, and a
                      continued C-policy. We have
                      (1)                            fa (00) = 14 olla +7)
                                                     fa (00) = ra Volga + 72)
                                                     fe (co) = —2™2_                 8
                                                                dats G3+1,
                         A comparison of fa (co) and fg (co) shows that fp (oo) >fa (oo) for
                     Vo/xo sufficiently large.
                         Let us now showthat in the region above the line C, = 0, if C is used
                     it   1s used continually thereafter. Using C increases the slope (¢) =
                     y (2)/x (¢), for with gy, = 1 we have
                     (2)                                 s’ (t) = s(t) (73 —1%) > 0
                     On the other hand, using B decreases the slope. Hence, we cannot use B
                     after C, for to do so would return us to a region where C wasto be used.
                     We have already shown that A cannot be used after C whenclose to the
                     y-axis. A comparison of fg (co) andfe (co) showsthat it is better to use
                     B rather than C near the y-axis if 7, v/(@2 + 72) > 1% /(@3 +74), OF
                     Ys %2— G21, > 0. This, however, is precisely equivalent to the condition
                     that C; = O lie within the positive quadrant, which we have assumed.
                         It follows that there is a region near the y-axis where neither A nor C
                     is used. Since by Lemma5 no mixedpolicy is used above the line C; = 0,
                     we conclude that there is a region adjoining the y-axis where B must be
                     used.
                     LEMMA 7. The lower boundary of the B-region adjoining the y-axts 1s the
                     line C, = 0. On that line a mixed BC-policy is employed. Below C; = 0,
                     B ts never used.
                     ProoF: Let us begin with initial values (%», yo) near the y-axis in the
                     region where B is used and consider what form an optimal strategy can
                                                                                                                            237
                            CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
              have. B cannot be used indefinitely since this would eventually take
              (x, y) near the x-axis where comparison off4 (co) and fg (co) shows that
              A is superior. However, since both A and C increase the slope y/x, B
              cannot be followed by A or C since both of these would immediately put
              the point (x, y) back into a region whereB is to be used. Consequently, B
              must be followed by one of the mixed policies.
                As we have already seen, for 7, > 7, the mixed policy AC is never used
              in an optimal strategy. Weassert that if a mixedpolicyis used in an optt-
              mal strategy, then continuing the mixed policy forever is optimal. For
              let (to, ¢,) be an interval on which the mixed policy is pursued. Since the
              point (x (¢,), y (¢;)) hes on the same ray as (x (to), y (t0)), because of the
              homogeneity the same policy, continued for an equal length of time,
              is optimal. Hence the mixed policy may be continued forever. Taking
              this remark into account, we can show that for D > 0 the mixture AB
              never occurs in an optimal strategy. By Lemma 5a, AB could only be
              used on the line C, = 0. If AB were used there, we would have
                                   Ky = PiC3G2—C§2 M1] < 0
              since C, > 0 and C, < 0 there (cf. Fig. 2). Since Ky (oo) = K, (co) =
              K,; (co) = 0 and K, = K, = 0 while ABis being used, it follows that
              K, > K, = kK, while the AB-mixture is being used. This, however,
              implies that y; = 1, y, = %2 = 0, which is a contradiction.
                The remaining possibility then is that BC is used after B on the line
              C, = 0. B cannot be used below this line as a consequence of the above
              arguments.
              LemMMa~A8. There is a line L = 0 between C, = 0 and the x-axis such that
              C is used 1n the region between C, = Oand L = 0, andthe policy A 1s used
              in the region below L = 0.
              ProoF: By the results already established we knowthat the only policies
              which can be usedin the region below the line C, = 0 are A and C. Since
              both of these policies increase the slope exponentially, eventually the
              point (x, y) will reach the line C; = 0 where the mixed policy BC is em-
              ployed.
                Let us investigate the possibilities of changes from A to C and from
              C to A. By (13.1) we have
                       Ky’ (2) —K,(t) = ‘Cy Qe + Cy P3 + Cy Yi — Cs Pol
              and hence when only C or A is used,
              (3)               Ky! (t) — Ky’ (t) = PCelqi + Gs]
              whichispositive above C, = 0 and negative below. Now in a changeover
              from C to A we must have K,’ — K,’ > 0. Consequently, a change from
              238
                                          CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                     C to A cannot occur below C, = 0. Similarly, we observe that a change
                     from A to C cannot occur above C, = 0. Also there cannot be a change
                     from A to BC because when 4 is used above C, = 0, K, — K;,is positive
                     and increases; hence BC, which requires K, > K,, cannot be used. Thus
                     the assumption that A can be used above C, = 0 leads to a contradiction,
                     since, as we know, BC must be used eventually.
                        Wealso can prove that a change from A to C cannot occur on the line
                     C, = 0. For suppose that such a change occurred. At this time of change
                     we would have kK, = K;. The C-policy will then take the point (x, y)
                     above the line C, = 0 where K, — K,’ >0O, hence K, > K3, which
                     means that A must be used, a contradiction.
                        There are now twopossible cases:
                        (1) C is used in the entire region below C; = 0.
                        (2) There is a line L = O lying between the x-axis and C, = Osuch that
                     A is used below L = 0 and is used above.
                        The following proof by contradiction showsthat the first case does not
                     occur. Let (%o, Vo) be a point below C; = 0. By assumption C and BC
                     are the only policies used so that we must have KA,’ (?) = 0 for all ¢ > 0.
                     Since K; (co) = 0, we have K, (0) = 0. Because C is preferable at (Xo,
                     Vo), we must have 0 = K, (0) > K, (0). Hence, since K, (co) = 0, we
                     have by (13.1)
                     (4)    0K,(0)—K,(0) = |pCa+ [>PW(Crp. +Coalat
                     where ?’ is the time of changeover from C to BC. Keeping x» fixed, let
                     Vo —> 0. This entails ¢’ — oo. Since C, y, + C, 3 1s uniformly bounded,
                     the secondintegral tends to zero. We havethen, using the expressions for
                     x, ¥, p, obtained from a C-policy
                                           t’
                     (5)          lim | €~4[G1 74 Vo €~78* — (Gg 7% — G1 13) Xo e- "| dt > O
                                 Vg > 0    YO
                     OT
                                    °°                                                   (93% — M73)
                                                                                                       
                     (6)     —I (371—G1V3) Xo eG+ 13) dt == —- “Qor, x9 > 0,
                    which contradicts the assumption that the hne C, = 0 passes through
                     the positive quadrant.
                        This completes the consideration of the case D > 0 when both C, =
                    O and C, = O are contained in the positive quadrant. The completeresult
                    iS
                    THEOREM 2. If D = 41 7%27%3 + 9211141 — Y3 %1%2 > O, the solution to the
                    problem ofmaximizingf(oo) subject to (12.1) 1s given schematically byFrg. 7.
                    It does not seem possible to specify L in any simple way.
                                                                                                                      239
                                                                                                                            CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Figure 7
                                                                       Finally, let us discuss the degenerate cases in which C, = 0 or C, = 0
                                                             do not lie in the positive quadrant. If C; = 0 hes outside, the C-region
                                                             extendsall the way to the y-axis.
                                                                                 §16. D< 0
                                                                       Let us now consider the case in which D < 0. In this case it turns out
                                                             that C is never used, which means that the solution is as given in the
                                                             two-choice problem
                                                             LemnaII]. Bits used near the y-axis.
                                                             PRooF: Precisely as before.
                                                             LEMMA 12. The lower boundary of the B-region adjoining the y-axis ts
                                                            C, = 0. On that line AB ts used. Below the line B is not used.
                                                             ProoF: Asin the case D > 0 we conclude that a B-policy must be follow-
                                                             ed by one of the mixed policies AB or BC. However, in the present case
                                                             where D < 0, the mixed policy BC cannot be used in an optimalstrategy.
                                                             For when BC is used, we have
                                                             (1)                                                                                    Ky’ (t) = P(Ci G2 + Cos] <0
                                                            because C; = 0 is below C, = 0 and C, = 0. Also K, (co) = K, (oo)
                                                             = K, (co) = 0, and K,’ (t) = K,’ (t) = 0 when the mixed policy BC is
                                                            used. Hence K, (2) > K, (#) = Ky (¢t) when the BC-mix is used. This,
                                                            however, is a contradiction since it implies that g, = 1, g. = 3 = 0.
                                                             Hence, a B-policy must be followed by use of AB on C, = 0.
                                                                      Again the same argument as above showsthat B is not used below C,
                                                             = 0,
                                                            LEMMA 12. A 1s used in the entire region between C, = 0 and the x-axts.
                                                            PRrooF: First, C is not used just before the AB-mixture. While AB is em-
                                                            ployed, K,’ (t) = K,’ (t) = 0, and K,’ (t) = 6[ —C.9, + C3 9,] > 0, as
                                                            240
                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                            CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                                                             can be seen from Fig. 7. It follows that K,; < K, and K, < K, immedia-
                                                              tely before the changeover to AB occurs. Hence C is not used immediately
                                                              before AB.
                                                                        It follows then that there is a region below C, = 0 and adjoining this
                                                             line, where A is used. However, it is impossible to use another choice
                                                              before A is an optimal policy. When A is used below C,, we have
                                                             (2)                                  Ky’) = 0, K,' () = — pC, > 0,K,' () =— PC, > 0
                                                              Hence, K,is the largest for all smaller ¢, and the A-region extends to the
                                                              x-axis.
                                                                        Collecting the above results, we have
                                                             THEOREM 8. If D = 4, 1%21%3 + G21%1%% — 93 1%1%2 <0, the solution to the
                                                             problem of maximizing f(oo) never uses a C-policy and has the two-choice
                                                            form:
                                                                                                                        y                                                                                                                                                                    C,=0
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Figure 8
                                                                                § 17. The case r,=r,
                                                                       Some of the preceding argumentsfail in this case because the C-policy
                                                             keeps the slope y/x constant. It follows from (14.3b) and (14.3c) that
                                                             neither of the mixed policies AC or BC is ever used.
                                                                       Let us first of all show that if D < 0, C is never used. To do this we
                                                             comparetheresult of using AB repeatedly with that obtained trom using
                                                            C,
                                                                      When ABis used continually, an easy calculation yields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                            (1                                                                                              fan (co) =~ (vo + 9)
                                                            where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                            (2)                                                                                       pai5eTel
                                                                                                                                                                           N+.                                                                      11s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  241
                       CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
             Similarly the result of using C continually is
                                        3
                                       
            (3)               fc (eo)       (Xo + Vo)
                                      93 + 1s
            The inequalityfaz (co) > fc (oo) 1s equivalent to D < 0.
              If D > 0, the above argument proves that no mixed policies are pur-
            sued. Different cases arise depending upon whichof the lines C, = 0,C,
            = 0 pass through the positive quadrant. Asbefore, it can be established
            that if C; = 0 is the positive quadrant,it is better to use B rather than C
            near the y-axis. Let us now determine where the changeover from B to C
            can be made. Let ft. be the time of changeover. For tj < ¢ < o, we
            have
            (4)        Ky’ () =—Cy, Ky’) = —pC, Ky’ () =0
            Also, we must have K,(to) < K(to) = Kg (to). Using again the remark
            that K, (co) = K, (oo) = Kz;(oo), we see that for ¢ >7%,, we must have
            C; — 0. Thus, B is followed until the line C,; = 0 is encountered and then
            C is followed. In this degenerate case C plays the role of BC. Similarly,
            changeover from A to C occurs when C, = 0 1s reached. If C, does not lie
            within the positive quadrant, C is used upto the y-axis. If C, = 0 does
            not lie within, C is used up to the x-axis.
               § 18. Nonlinear utility—two-choice problem
             Let us now consider briefly the two-choice problem discussed in § 6—10
            under the condition that we wish to maximize the expected value of some
            function w# of the total return R.
             In view of the results obtained for the discrete problem, or rather of
            the lack of results, it is somewhat surprising to find that for every utility
            function #, which is strictly increasing and has a continuous derivative,
            the optimal policy is precisely the same as that for the linear utility
            problem solved above. This alone should be sufficient to warn the un-
            wary that continuous versions should not be used without close atten-
            tion to the kind of approximation they afford.
             Since any monotone-increasing utility function can be approximated
            arbitrarily closely by a function of the above type, it follows that this
           policy is optimal for any monotone-increasing utility function, although
           not necessarily unique. A function of this class of great theoretical and
           practical importance 1s
            (1)             u(k) =Ofor0O<R< Rk,
                                 =lforR>R,
           242
                            CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
              The expected value of wu (R) is the probability that R is greater than or
              equal to Ro.
                Let the variables have their previous connotations; we obtain as
              before           |
              (2)      ax|dt == — qq (t) 7, x (bt) ,           x (0) = Xo
                       dy|dt = —M(t)rzy (t) ,                  y(0) = Yo
                       dp|dt=—p(t)[pr (t) @1 + Pe(t)Ge],       p(0) =1
              Let z(t) = %0 + Vo — x (t) — y(t), the quantity which represents the total
              amountof gold mined upto ¢ if the machinehassurvived upto this time.
              The expected value of u (R) is given by the integral
              (3)                     G=—|"ule()dl
              This is easiest seen by considering that we are paid for the total amount
              of gold that the machine has mined up to the time that the machine is
              damaged.
                Our aim is to find the functions q,(¢), @(¢) subject to the constraints
                                    0<gm<1ot+g,=1
              (4)
              which maximize G.
                Pursuing the same perturbation techniques as above, we obtain after
              some straightforward calculation
              (5)       GC—G=e|[KiBO) + Ke(l)Bal dt + 0(6)
              where
              6)          K, =apul)— |)#@)nx
                                                   —hP'(s) u (s))]ds
                          Ne = oh (t) u (2 (0) — |   [p' (s) uw! (z(3)) 729 (8)
                                                   —qop’ (s) u (s))]as
              Furthermore,
              (7)       Ky)Ket) =p)(24)(arey)—Gan(2)]
                It follows that if we assume that wv’ (z) > O when z > 0, the arguments
              and results of the linear case carry over with very slight modifications.
                                                                               243
                  CONTINUOUS STOCHASTIC DECISION PROCESS
                Bibliography and Comments for Chapter VIII
           § 1. The results of this chapter were obtained in collaboration with R. S.
         Lehman: I. Bellman and R. S. Lehman, ‘“‘On the Continuous Gold-Mining
         Fquation,”’ Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., vol. 40 (1954), pp. 115-119, Rk. Bellman and
         R. S. Lehman, ‘On a Functional Equation in the Theory of Dynamic
         Programming and its Generalizations,” (unpublished).
           § 2. Equation (2.3) can be used in a formal mannerto obtain the character
         of the solution, but nothing as yet has been done in the study of nonlinear
         partial differential equations of this type.
           § 3. The modern theory of stochastic processes, as expounded in J. L.
         Doob, Stochastic Processes, J. Wiley and Sons, (1953), furnishes a basis for
         a rigorous theory of such equations, but the mathematics required is defi-
         nitely on an exalted plane.
           § 5. The concept of mixing at a point being replaced by mixing over a
         small interval was used in R. Bellman and D. Blackwell, ‘‘“Some two-person
         games involving bluffing,’’ Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., vol. 35 (1949), pp. 600-5,
         in the study of some simple two-person poker games; cf. also R. Bellman,
         “On Games Involving Bluffing,” Rend. Circ. Mat. Palermo (2), vol. 1 (1952),
         pp. I-18.
           Extensive results concerning the convergence of the discrete process to the
         continuous version will be found in H. Osborn, “‘On the Convergence of
         Discrete Stochastic Processes to their Continuous Analogues,’’ RM-—1368,
         RAND Corporation, (1955), H. Osborn, ‘“‘The Problem of Continuous Pro-
         grams,’’ P—718, and Corporation, (1955).; see also, Pac. Jour. Math., Vol. 6
         (1956), pp. 721-731.
         244
                                               CHAPTER IX
                     A New Formalism in the Calculus of Variations
                     § 1. Introduction
                   In two previous chapters, in our treatment of multi-stage production
                processes, we encountered the problem of maximizing the functional
                (x(T), a) over all functions z (¢) subject to the relations
                (1)                     a.   dx/di= Az,      x(O0)=c,
                                        b Be<iCx,
                                        c    2z>0.
                   Utilizing the fact that the maximum, which we assumeis attained, is a
                function only of the initial vector c and the duration of the process T, we
                obtained a functional equation for f(c, 7) = Max (x (T), a), which we
                                                                      z
                converted into a partial differential equation. As we mentioned at the
                end of Chapter 7, this same approach is equally available for the studyof
                other classes of problems in the calculus of variations.
                   Weshall pursue the investigation in this chapter, devoting our atten-
                tion to two particular classes of problems. Thefirst is that of determining
                the maximum or minimumoffunctionals of the form
                                         T
                (2)           I (2) = | F(X, Xo, - ++, Xn, 21, 2g, «++, Zm) ab,
                subject to relations and constraints of the form
                (3)          a.  axi/dt = Gi (x, 2), xi (0) = ci,2 = 1,2, ..., 0,
                             b.  Rx (x, 2) <0,k = 1,2,...,0.
                  The second is the eigenvalue problem associated with the equation
                (4)            u"+Aop(thu=O0,             u(0) = u(l)=0.
                Since this problem is, under reasonable assumptions concerning @ (2),
                equivalent to the problem of determining the relative minima of
                (5)                          J (u) = [« dt,
                                                        0
                                                                                           245
                                             A NEW FORMALISM
                subject to the constraints
                (6)                        a.   [e@wa=1,
                                           b.  u(0)=u(l)=0,
                we have a problem closely related to that described in equations (2) and
                (3). The two-point boundary condition, however, introduces features of
                novelty and difficulty.
                   Following our usual approach, we shall introduce suitable state vari-
                ables and derive a functional equation for the minimum of / (uw) as a
                function of these variables. The limiting form of this functional equation
                will be a partial differential equation.
                   Weshall then turn to a discussion of the numerical solution of these
                equations. After indicating the conventional solution by meansof partial
                difference equations, we shall show how difference equations can enter
                along another route. The importanceof this alternate approachlies in the
                fact that it enables us to bypass a numberof thorny, analytic difficulties
                native to the domain of the calculus of variations. It also enables us to
                avoid a numberof difficulties associated with the stability of computa-
                tional techniques.
                  Using this approach, weshall consider also some problems involving a
                Cebycev functional
                               J (2) = Max F (x4, Xo, ..., nj 21, 22, . ++, 2m)
                                      O<t<T
                  In any case, we shall throughout the chapter consistently adopt a
                purely formal viewpoint. In this introductory, expository account we
                are primarily interested in presenting the basic principles of the func-
                tional equation method. A rigorous account, necessarily of a higher level
                of difficulty, will be reserved for the second volume.
                     § 2. A new approach
                  Before embarking upon the high seas of analysis, let us discuss the
                basic idea of this new approach to continuousvariational problems.
                  The classic technique in the calculus of variations, patterned directly
                upon the finite dimensional techniques of calculus, depends upon the
                concept of a function yielding an extremum asa point in function space,
                and the characterization of this point by meansof variational properties.
                  Weshall instead consider the calculus of variations as consisting of a
                particular class of multi-stage decision processes of continuous type. A
                function yielding an extremum may then be considered to be a contin-
                uous policy.
                246
                                                                                            A NEW FORMALISM
                                      Let us give some simple examples which mayservetoillustrate this
                                 idea moreclearly than any abstract discussion.
                                 EXAMPLE
                                                       1.
                                                             Determine
                                                                                     the
                                                                                             curve
                                                                                                          connecting
                                                                                                                                  two
                                                                                                                                           points,
                                                                                                                                                            P
                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                            Q,
                                                                                                                                                                                   having
                                the
                                        property
                                                            that
                                                                     a
                                                                          particle
                                                                                           travelling
                                                                                                                 along
                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                      curve
                                                                                                                                                  under
                                                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                        influence
                                                                                                                                                                                             of
                                gravity will go from P toQ in minimum time.
                                                          y
                                                               
                                                               
                                                                                                        Figure |
                                 (the classical brachistochrone problem)
                                      It is clear that along an extremal, whatever the path between P and
                                some intermediate point R, the path between R and Q must be such as to
                                minimize the time required to traverse RQ, given the left-hand velocity
                                at R.
                                     At each point on the curve, we determine a direction of motion, which
                                is to say a tangent to the curve. The optimal policy or extremal may be
                                expressed not only by means of an equation for y in terms of x, the
                                usual approach, but also by meansof an equation for dy/dx in termsof y
                                and the given left-hand velocity at (x, y).
                                EXAMPLE 2. Suppose that we are presented with the problem of drawing a
                                curve passing through P and Q, as in the figure below, of fixed length L,
                                which will include a maximum area in the curvilinear quadrilateral bounded
                                by the curve, the perpendiculars PP’, QQ’, and the segment P’Q' of the
                                X-AX1S,
                                     It is clear that along an extremal, whatever the path between P and R,
                                and whatever the shaded area obtained in this way, the continuation
                                from R to Q must maximize the area RR’ Q’Q subject to the restriction
                                that the curve RQ have length L — L’.
                                     The optimal policy may be expressed by meansof an equation for dy/dx
                                in terms of y and L — L’, rather than by an equation for y in termsof x.
                                     Both of the conclusions in these two examples are applications of the
                                “principle of optimality” discussed in Chapter 3, and applicd in all of the
                               preceding chapters. The mathematical expression of this principle will
                               yield our new approachto the calculus of variations.
                                                                                                                                                                                        247
                                                                                                                                                                                A NEW FORMALISM
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                          0                                   p’                                R’                                                         Q’
                                                                                                                               Figure 2                                 (the classical isoperimetric problem)
                                                                       An advantage of this new approachlies in the fact that very often in
                                                             the determination of optimal policies for multistage processes, the deter-
                                                             mination of the next move in termsof the current state of the processis
                                                             in many ways a simpler, more natural and even more important piece
                                                             of information than the determination of the entire sequence of movesin
                                                             an optimal policy to be followed from somefixedinitial position.
                                                                       Speaking in geometrical terms, we seek to determine the intrinsic
                                                             equations of extremal curves. In place of considering the curve as the
                                                             locus of points, we regard it as the envelope of tangents, a dual approach
                                                             to the classical treatment.?
                                                                      In general, as is always to be expected, the combination of the two
                                                            approaches,local and global, will be most powerful, since someaspects of
                                                            an extremal are most simply described in point coordinates, and others in
                                                            tangential coordinates.
                                                                      Weshall in the following sections apply these ideas to a number of
                                                            representative problems, and discuss the application of this approach to
                                                            the computation of solutions.
                                                            §3.                      Max | F(x,y) dt
                                                                                             y                    o
                                                                      In Chapter 1 we considered the discrete process which gaverise to the
                                                            functional equation
                                                             (1)                f(x) = Max [g(y) +4(x— y) +flay + b (x — y))],f(0) = 0.
                                                                                                              OsSy<2
                                                                      1       In the terminology of game theory, there may be a considerable advantage
                                                            to viewing a process in its extensive rather than normal form. Essentially, only then
                                                            do we take full advantage of the intrinsic structure of a process and thusdifferentiate
                                                            it from other multi-stage processes and other multi-dimensional maximization
                                                            problems.
                                                            248
                                                                                                                                                                            
                                       A NEW FORMALISM
                Acontinuousversion of this processgivesrise to the problem of maxim-
              izing the functional
              (2                To) = [> go) +k@—y)) ae,
              with respect to y (¢), where
              (3)       a.  dx/dt = —ay—b(x—y),a,b>0,x(0)=c,
                        b.  O<y(t)<x(),t>0.
                Let us then, to introduce our method,considerasourfirst example, the
              problem of maximizing an integral of the form
              (4)                     0) = [°Fy)at,
              subject to the relation between x and y ,
              (5)                   dx/dt = G (x, y), x (0) =c.
              To begin with, let us omit any constraint such as (3b).
                Let us once again repeat that we shall proceed tormally since we are
              interested here only in presenting the mechanics of our approach. This is
              to say, we shall consistently assume that maxima and minimaexist, and
              that the extremals possess the requisite differentiability properties we
              shall need. The problem of establishing these properties rigorously is
              quite distinct from that of deriving the formalism and will not be con-
              sidered here. Furthermore, as we shall indicate below, in a numberof
              cases, we can pursue a path whicheliminates any necessity for obtaining
              a priori results concerning the nature of the maximizingy.
                Returning to the maximization problem posed above, we observe that
              the maximum value of / (y) will be a function only of the initial value of
              x, namely c. Let us therefore write
              (6)                      Max J (y) =f(c),
              and proceed to derive a functional equation for f (c).
                Let y = y (t) be a function yielding the maximum of J (y). We have
              then
              (7)              flo)= |F@y)de+ [oFGy) at,
              for any S > 0.
                Consider the second integral. The effect of any initial choice of y (f),
              for ¢ in the interval [0, S], will be, by way of the differential equation of
              (5), to convert c into the value of x at S, which wecall c (S). It follows
              then, that whatever the initial choice of y over [0, S], we will have over
                                                                               249
                                        A NEW FORMALISM
              the remaining interval, [S, co], a problem of precisely the same form as
              the original, with the difference that c is now c (S) = x (S). Since the
              integrand is independentof /, and also the differential equation, the new
              interval may be considered to be [0, oo], with x (0) = c (S).
                It follows then, invoking the principle of optimality, that equation (7)
              may be rewritten
              8)                 flc)= |Fly) dt +F(e(S)).
              Since the choice of the function y must be madeso asto yield the maxi-
              mum valuef(c), we obtain the basic functional equation
              (9)           fe) = Max[ [°F (x,y) dé + fle (S))1,
              forany S > 0.
                From this equation we shall derive a differential equation for f(c) by
              letting S approach 0, For small S we have, under appropriate assump-
              tions of continuity,
              (10)   f(c) = Max [F(¢, y (0) S + fle + SG (¢, y (0)) + 0 (S)].
                             y [0, S]
                Asthe interval [0, S] shrinks to zero, a choice of y over [0, S] becomes
              ultimately a choiceof y (0). Let us, for notational simplicity, set v = y (0).
              Then (10) leads to
              (11)     f(c) = Max [F (c,v) S + f(c) + SG(¢, v) f’ (¢)] + 0 (S),
              which in the limit as S — 0 yields
              (12)             O= Max [F(c,v) + Ge, v)f’ (c)].
                Applying calculus to determine this maximum, we obtain the two
              equations
              (13)                 0O=F(c,v) +G(e, v)f'(c),
                                   0 = F, (c, v) + Go (ec, v\ f’ (c).
              Elimination of f’ (c) between these two equations yields the determi-
              nantal equation
              (14)                    F(c, v) Gc, v)    _ 9,
                                      Fy (c, v) Gy (c, v)
              which determinesv as a function ofc.
                Having determined v as a function of c, whichIs to say, y as a function
              250
                                                    A NEW FORMALISM
                   of x, we return to the differential equation of (5) and find x, and subse-
                   quently y, as functions of ¢ by solving the differential equation
                   (15)                     dx/di = Gx, y(x)],x (0) =c.
                      From this we see that relatively simple policy, y = @ (x), may yield a
                   relatively complicated extremal function, x = x (t).
                        § 4. Discussion
                     Let us take G (x, y) to be uniformly negative and equal to — A (x, y) so
                   that we may consider the above to represent a continuous allocation
                   process where the rate of return is F (x, y) and the rate of expenditure of
                   resourcesis A (x, y). Starting from the basic equation
                   (1)                   0 = Max([F (c, v) — A (c, v) f’ (c)},
                  we have,for all v,
                  (2)                         0 >F (c, v) —A (ce, v) f’ (c),
                  and thus
                  (3)                           f'(c) 2F (c, v/A (¢, 2).
                     Since there is equality for at least one value of v, we obtain the equation
                                                                   
                  (4)                            f' (c) = Max FAG2)
                                                              »   AC, 2)
                     This equation tells us that the policy which maximizes the overall
                  return proceeds locally to maximize the ratio of the rate of return to the
                  rate of expenditure of resources, a policy we have encountered before,
                  cf. Exer. 18 of Chapter 1, § 8 of Chapter 2.
                     This is a very interesting interpretation of the Euler equation for varia-
                  tional problems of the above simple form. Weleave it to the reader to
                  verify that (14) of § 3 is a first integral of the Euler equation obtained in
                  the classical manner.
                        § 5. The two dimensional case
                     Weleave as an exercise the proof of the result that the same technique
                  applied to the problem of determining the maximum of
                  (1)                               | F(x4, Xe, Vip Vo) at,
                  over all functionsy, (¢) and y, (¢) subject to
                  (2)              dx,/dt = G (%1, Xe, V1, Vo) ,           x, (0)
                                                                                      Ci,
                                                                                     |
                                   Ax,/dt = H (x4, Xo, V1, V2) »           %» (0)
                                                                                      Co,
                                                                                                        251
                                        A NEW FORMALISM
              yields the determinantal equation
                        F
                          (c,,
                             Cy,
                                4,
                                   v)
                                      G
                                         (Cy,
                                            Cs,
                                               u,v)
                                                     H
                                                       (cy,
                                                           Ce,
                                                              4,
                                                                v)
                                                                     — 0,
              (3)
                        F,
                                      Gy
                                                     Hy
                      FE,
                                      Gy
                                                     A,
              connecting the values y; (0) = u (C1, C2), V2 (0) = v (Cy, Ce).
                It is an open problem as to whether or not a solution to the above
              variational problem can be obtained in the same form as in the one-
              dimensionalcase,1.e., in the form y, = 9, (%, %2), Vo = Me (X41, Xo).
                              T
                  § 6. Max | F(x,y) dt.
                        ¥y   o
                Let us now consider the more general problem of determining the
              maximum of
              (1)                      Jy) = | F (x, y)dt
              subject to the relation connecting x and ,
              (2)                dx/dt = G (x, y),     x (0) =c.
                As weshall point out again below, there are certain advantages to
              considering the finite problem, despite the complication caused by an
              additional parameter.
                The two state variables are now c and J. In many applications, c
              represents the initial quantity of resources and T the duration of the
              process. We now write
              (3)                     Max J (y) =f(c, 7).
                                        y
                Employing precisely the same reasoning as in the previoussection, we
              obtain the functional equation
              4)       fT) = Max [ [F(x y) dt +fe(S), TS),
              which leads, in the limit as S — 0, to the nonlinearpartial differential
              equation
              (5)             0 = Max [F (c, v) + G(c, v) fe —fr].
              This, in turn, leads to the simultaneous equations
              (6)                 fr =F(c,v) +G@(, v)fe
                                   0 =F, (c, v) + Go (ec, v) fe.
              252
                                        A NEW FORMALISM
              Solving for f. and fr we have
              (7)               fe = —Fv (c, v)/Gr (c, v) = P (ec,v)
                                fr =F —GF,/Gr=OQ (c, v)
                To obtain an equation for v, the fundamental variable, we equate fre
              withfer and obtain the equation
              (8)                      Pyvr =Qvtve + Qc.
              This is a first order linear partial differential equation for v = v (c, T),
              which maybe solved by means of the method of characteristics, a point
              we shall mention again below in § 14, or by numerical means, given v
              (0, 2) or v(c, 0).
                It is here the advantage of a J7-dependent formulation becomesclear.
              Wecan determine v as a function of c for T = 0 quite readily, since for
              small 7, we have
              (9)               f(c, T) = Max [F (c, v) T + 0(7)].
              Consequently, for T = 0,v = v (c, 0) is determined by the condition
              that it maximizes F (c, v).
                              T
                  § 7. Max | F(x,y) dt under the Constraint 0 <y <x
                         ¥y   o
                Let us now consider the problem of determining the maximum of
              Ti) = |F(x, y) dt subject to the relations
              (1)                 (a)  dx/dt = (x,y), x(0) =c,
                                  (b)  OSy<x.
                As far as the classical approach is concerned, the difficulty of the
              problem resides in the fact that y cannot be determined, in general, by
              means of an unrestricted variation. When 0 < y <%, we may vary
              freely, and in intervals where this inequality holds, y must satisfy the
              Euler equation. However, when y = 0 or x, we merely have an Euler
              inequality. The heart of the problem hes in determining how to fit
              together the three types of solution, y = 0, y = x, and y a solution of the
              Euler equation. This is equivalent to determining the transition points
              where two typesof solution join.
                At the present time, there exists no uniform technique for solving
              these problemsin explicit analytic form. Certain classesofproblemsofthis
              type do have a simple structure to their solution, as we shall briefly
              discuss below.
                                                                               253
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A NEW FORMALISM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Let us now see how the functional equation technique applies to this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          problem. Define
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f(c, £) = Max J (y)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              As above, we derive the partial differential equation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     fr = Max [F (c,v) + G(¢,») fe].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O<v<e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           The original constraint 0< y< x has been translated into the con-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           straint O << v<c. The initial condition is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       f(c, 0) = 0,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            for all c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wesee that the constraint 0 << v<c prevents us from differentiating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            freely with respect to v. In § 10, we shall show how (3) can be used to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           derive the structure of the solution, under certain assumptions concerning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F and G.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 § 8. Computational solution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Let us examine the nonlinearpartial differential equation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     fr = Max[F (c, v) + @(, v) fel,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           withf(c, 0) = Oand sketch a procedure that may be used to computethe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           solution.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In place of allowing the variables T and c continuous variation, we
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           restrict their range to the set of values
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T = 0,4, 24, ..., kA, ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         c=0,+ 06, + 26,...,+k6,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          where JA and6 are both positive quantities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The partial derivatives fr and f. are now approximated to by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          difference quotients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,f+A)—f                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l(c,             T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           jrfO Tt a—Sen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~ fe +8,T) ~f(c—8,T)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       f=                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           with the result that the nonlinear differential equation in (1) assumes the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           approximate form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          254
                                                         A NEW FORMALISM
                    (4)   f(c,T +A) =f, T)
                                                                             6, T) —f(c—6,T
                                                                     
                           +A Max |F (c,v) + G(c, v) fle +                         | aL                a
                          f(c, 0) =0
                    Starting with the known values for f(c, 0) we can compute successively
                    the values off(c, A), f(c, 24),..., and so on.
                       Although this method is conceptually very simple, there are great
                    difficulties encountered in actual computing practice. Essentially the
                    main question is how to choose the quantities 4 and 6. The convergence
                    of the process and the stability of the numerical solution depend upon
                    the proper ch oice ofthese parameters. For the linear equations that appear
                    when the maximum is removed, there is a fairly complete and satis-
                    fying theory of these matters. For nonlinear equations, however, prac-
                    tically no theory exists and the matter rests in the realm of art and
                    experience.?
                       It is interesting to observe that the numerical solution of (7.3), an
                    equation with a constraint, is easier to obtain than the numerical solution
                    of (1) above, due to the fact that the existence of the constraint narrows
                    the range that must be examined to determine the maximum. Conse-
                    quently, in many cases, the morerealistic process will possess a simpler
                    computationalsolution.
                       In § 11 we shall discuss an alternate computational scheme, also based
                    upon difference equations, which in practice seems to be more efficient
                    and which enables us to proceed in a rigorous fashion, without having to
                    enter difficult domainsof the calculus of variations.
                          § 9. Discussion
                       We have mentioned abovethe difficulties that may arise in solving a
                    variational problem subject to restraints, and also the fact that certain
                    cases may be completely resolved.
                       Let us show how the functional equation in (8.1) may be used to yield
                    information concerning the structure of the solution. We shall consider
                    only the case whereF (c, v) is strictly concave in v for all c, and (c, v)
                    is linear in v. The nonlinear partial differential equation then has the
                    form
                    (1)                  fr = Max [F (c, v) + (g (c) + A (¢) ») fel
                                                O< t<e
                       2 There is also the problem of choosing a suitable difference-quotient approxim-
                    ation.  In (3), we choose a symmetric approximation for f, and an asymmetric
                    one for fr. For the case of linear equations, stability considerations may often
                    be helpful. For nonlinear equations, practically nothing is known.
                                                                                                                255
                                                                              A NEW FORMALISM
                            The function F (c, v) + (g (c) + h(c) v) f is strictly concave in v for all
                            values of c and T, and the maximum overv is uniquely assumed.It may,
                            however, occur at v = 0, v = c or at an interior point.
                                Assuming that all the functions involved vary continuously with c and
                            T, we can make the following important observation. Since the function
                           F(c, v) + (g (c) + A (c) v) fe varies continuously andis strictly concave,
                            the maximum cannotshift from v = 0 to v = c without passing through
                            interior points of the interval [0, c] first.
                                This is a particular case of the fact that the maximum value for v
                           depends continuously upon c and 7. This remark can be used to shorten
                           greatly the time involved in the computational solution of these proces-
                           ses, and furthermore, it makes feasible the numerical solution of multi-
                           dimensional processes.?
                                It follows that any extremal must have the following structure. An
                           interval where y = 0 must be followed and preceded by an interval in
                           which 0 < y < x, and similarly for an interval where y = x.
                                The question arises as to how often the solution can switch from one
                           type to another. In order to answer this, we must make further as-
                           sumptions concerning the functions which appear. It is not difficult to
                           construct examples showing that there may be an arbitrarily large num-
                           ber of such transitions if F is chosen suitably. In the example considered
                           in the next section we will carry through the discussion in greater detail.
                                   § 10. An example
                                Let us consider the problem of determining the maximum of
                           (1                                              Ty) = |" w—y) at
                           under the conditions
                           (2)                                        a.      dx/dt = b(y), x (0) =c
                                                                      b O<y<x
                               The basic equation is
                           (3)                                   fr = Max [c —v + b(v)fel.
                               Let us now assumethat0 (y) satisfies the conditions
                           (4)                         a.      6(0) =0,                          b' (0) = 00
                                                       b.      O’(y) >0,                         b’ (vy) + O0asy—>oo
                                                       c.      db" (y) <0,
                               3  Cf. the remarks in § 22 and § 23 of Chapter I.
                           256
                                                   A NEW FORMALISM
                  A simple function satisfying these conditions is 1/2,
                     Let us assume,as is quite plausible, that/. > 04. Then, turning to the
                  determination of the maximum of K (v) = c —v + b(v) fc, we see that
                  the derivative with respect to v, K’ (v) = —1-+)' (v) fc, is positive for
                  small v, negative for large v and zerofor just one value of v. Let us further-
                  more assume,asIs also plausible in this case, that f, = Oat T = 0 and
                  monotoneincreasing thereafter as a function of T.
                     If we allow v to traverse the interval 0 < v < 00, wesee that there
                  will always be a solution of K’ (v) = 0. However,if v is constrained by the
                  condition that 0 << v<c, then iff; is large, whichis to say,if T is large,
                  K’ (v) will remain positive throughout the interval O<v<c. This
                  means that the maximum will be at v = c, ory = x, for T large compared
                  to ¢.
                     It remains to determine the transition curve T = T (c) at which this
                  cross-over in policy occurs. We knowthatthe solution will have the form
                  (5)                 a.   Y=X,                   O<t<t,
                                      b O<y<x,                         ti<t<T,
                  The first part of the curve, where y = x, will appear only if T is suff-
                  ciently large. If T is small, the solution will consist onlyofthe second part,
                  where 0 < y < x.
                     Consider then the case where 7 is small. There are two courses we may
                  pursue. We mayfirst use the fact that the maximum in (3) occursinside
                  the interval, which meansthat (3) 1s equivalent to the two equations
                  (6)                             fr =¢e—v-+ b (0)fe
                                                  O =—1+40'(v)fe
                    These equations, combined with the boundary values
                  (7)                          fic, 0) = 0, v(c, 0) = 0
                  suffice to determine f(c, 7), for T small.
                    Alternatively, we may use theclassical variational technique, armed
                 with the knowledge that we can ignore the constraint 0 < y < x. Setting
                                                    T          t
                 (8)                    To) =| e+ | oo) ds—y) at,
                  we readily obtain as the variational equation, the Euler equation
                 (9)                           (I — t) '(y) —1=0.
                 With y determined uniquely by this equation, we can compute J (y) for
                 the extremal and thusf/f (c, T).
                    4 In the following section, we shall show how these results may be derived by
                 a consideration of the discrete process.
                                                                                                      257
                                                    A NEW FORMALISM
                     As T increases, the critical value of 7, as a function of c, is furnished
                  by the value for which the equation
                  (10)                             —140'(v)fp =0
                  has the solution v = c, which is to say the value of T furnished by the
                  equation
                                                                      1
                   11                                  e(c, T)  = —-~
                  (11)                                fle     T)    55
                  If f- (c, T) is monotone increasing as a function of T, as surmised, this
                  equation has one root T (c). Once we have determined thiscritical value
                  the solution is completely determined.
                        § 11. A discrete version
                     One of the methods we can employ to make the above arguments
                  rigorous is based upon the discrete approximation to the continuous
                  problem.® Considering the problem abovein § 10, a discrete version is the
                  problem of determining the maximum of
                                                                                         )
                                                                                        y
                                                                                       y
                                                                                   —
                                                                              (te
                                                                           E
                                                                        =
                                                                 Is)
                                                         Ino
                                                     Yu
                                             Jo.
                                          =
                                   T.0)
                  (1)
                  over
                        all
                            y;
                                subject
                                         to
                                             the
                                                  relations
                  (2)
                                      a.
                                            Xe+1
                                                   =
                                                      %e +
                                                             5
                                                               (ye),
                                      b
                                            O<yrx<ixer,
                                                                &kR=O,1,2,...,N.
                     If we
                            set
                  (3)
                                                   un
                                                       (c)
                                                           = Max
                                                                    J (y)
                  we obtain the recurrence relations
                  (4)   a.   u(c)=—c,
                        b.   unwii(c) = Max [c—v+uy(c+ d(v))], N=O,1,....
                                           O<v<e
                  Using the same methods we have employed in § 12 of Chapter 1, and in
                  our discussion of the optimal inventory equation, it is easy to establish
                  the followingresult:
                  THEOREM 1. For each N > 1,there exists afunction vy (c) with thefollow-
                  ing properties:
                     5 They may also be rigorously established using classical techniques. A reference
                  will be found in the bibliography at the end of the chapter.
                  258
                                                        A NEW FORMALISM
                   (5)    a.  un (c) ts monotone decreasing as c increases,
                          b. uv +1(c) > un (c),          N= 1,2,...
                          c.  There ts a unique solution to vy (c) = c which wecall
                              CN;CN+1 > CN.
                          d. ForO<c< cn, un (c) = un-1{e + b(c)), lev =.
                          e.  For cn < C, un (c) = ¢ — vn (c) + un -~1fe + 5 (un (c))],
                          f.  un’ (c) > un’ -1(c), N = 1,2,..., forc >0.
                      The proof, which is inductive along the usual lines, we leave to the
                    reader.
                       A similar result can be obtained for the more general case, correspon-
                    ding to the problem in § 7, if we impose suitable conditions on F (x, y)
                    and G (x, y). The proof is much more detailed.
                      As wesaw in § 7—8,the problem of determining the maximum of J (y)
                          T
                    == | F (x, y) dt subject to the relations
                    (6)                         (a)   dx/dt = (x, y), x (0) =c
                                                (b)   O<Sy<x
                    can be reduced to the problem of solving the nonlinear partial differen-
                    tial equation
                    (7)               fr = Max [F(c,v) +G(¢,»)fel,f(c, 0) =0
                                             QO<v<ce
                    This equation may be approached numerically by converting it into a
                   partial difference equation.
                       In order to use this method with confidence, we mustfirst establish the
                    fact that the variational problem is equivalent to solving this nonlinear
                    equation, a matter of some difficulty when constraints are imposed, and
                    then that thefinite difference methodyieldsan approximatesolutiontothe
                    nonlinear equation, again a complicated question. Both of these problems
                    maybe avoidedin the following way. Wereplacethe original problem by
                    the problem of determining the maximum overyx of the function
                                                                      N
                    8)                            F (yx) = 4SFem ya),
                    subject to the relations
                    (9)                    (a)    %e+1 = Xe + AG (Xx, Vu), X = €
                                           (b)    O<ye<xr,k =0,1,2,...,N,
                    where x, =x (kA),            ye=y(RKA), NA=T.
                                                                                                                259
                                                A NEW FORMALISM
                    Setting
                 (10)                         In (¢) = Max J (tyes),
                 we replace the above maximization problem bythe recurrence relations
                 (11)           To (¢) = 9,
                                fv+i(c) = Max [AF (c,v) + fy(c + 4G (c,v))].
                                              O<cr<e
                    In cases treated to date this has turned out to be a more reliable
                 computational procedure, and it possesses a numberof other attractive
                 features from the numerical point of view aswell.
                    It turns out to be not too difficult to show that
                 (12)                         lim fw (c) =f(c,T),
                                              A—0O
                 under conditions upon F and G that are normally assumedin the calculus
                 of variations. Actually, these conditions can be greatly lightened. How-
                 ever, any discussion of this would take us too farafield.
                      § 12. A convergence proof
                    Since a discussion of the convergence question, even under strong
                 assumptions, becomes quite long-winded in its full generality, without
                 adding much in principle, we shall content ourselves with the proof of a
                 typical result.
                   Let us set
                 (1)                      f(c, T) = Max ["F (x, y) dt,
                                                        y    0
                 subject to the constraints
                 (2)                  a.   dx/dt =G (x,y),          x (0) =c,
                                       b O<y<x.
                    It is convenient to set y = @ x,° so that we have, introducing a new F
                 andG,
                 (3)                      f(c,T) = Max [° F (x, y) dt,
                    6 This is particularly so in the numerical calculation since this change of inde-
                 pendent variable permits the maximization to be over a fixed region, 0 < g, < I,
                 rather than over a variable region. On the other hand, there are cases where the
                 variable region is desirable, particularly in connection with shrinking processes.
                 260
                                               A NEW FORMALISM
                where
                 (4)                  a.   adx/dt = G(x, q),       x (0) =c,
                                      b O<q@<lforalli>0.
                   Let us now define, for m = 1, 2,..., a sequence of approximating
                problems: Maximize
                                                  NV
                 5)             J(Kpu} n) =EF (xe, palin,            N=(Tn).
                where x; and gx are related by the equations
                (6)           Ke+1—Xe =G (Xx, yx)/n,             k—0O,1,...,n—1,
                                      Xo = C ,
                 and the variables mx are constrained bytherelations
                 (7)                   O<or<l, k=0,1,...,N.
                 Here, as above, x, == x (k A), pe == p (RA).
                 For each c and 7,let
                 (8)                    f(c, T, n) = Max Jw ({pe}, 0).
                 Wewish to show that
                 (9)                       lim f(c, T,n) = f(c, T).
                   Wefirst require the following
                 LemMA: LetG (x,y) satisfy a Lipschitz condition for m<x< M,
                 O<g<l. Let
                 (10)  a. @(t) be a step-function ve constant value gr, OX ye< 1, in
                           the interval Rin <t<(k + 1)/n,k =0,1,...,N;
                       b. {xx} be defined recursively by (6), and let the» uniform bounds on
                           the sequence be mand M;m<ixer< M.
                       c.  x (t) be stepfunction with constant value x,fork|/n<t < (k + 1)/n,
                       d. x (t) be defined as the solution of the differential equation in (4).
                 Then there exists a constant k depending only upon G and T such that
                  x (t) — x (t) |< k/n, forO<t<QN.
                   This may be proved by the Cauchy-Lipschitz method, applied in the
                same wayasin the proof of the existence theorem for systems of ordinary
                 differential equations.
                                                                                               261
                                                             A NEW FORMALISM
                         Let us nowstate the limit relation of (9) as
                      THEOREM 2. Under the assumptions
                      (11)     a. F and G have continuous second partial derivatives.
                               b. There exist constants p,q,7 such that px <G (x,y) < qx +7,
                                   forx >OandO<y<ix
                               c.  Gy ts of one sign: either Gy > 0 or Gy <0for all x > 0, and
                                   O<y<x
                      we have
                      (12)                               lim f(c, T,n) =f(c, T),
                                                       n> Cc
                     forallic >0,T > 0.
                      ProoF: Givenc > Oand JT > 0, let N = [T/n], as above. The condition
                      of (1lb) enables us to assert the uniform boundedness of x (¢) tor
                      O<t<T. Let m<x(t) < M, and thus m< x, < M.Since, by as-
                      sumption, F (x, pg), and G (x, gy) satisfy Lipschitz conditions in the region
                     mox<M,0<y<1, byvirtue of the Lemma above, there exists a
                      constant B, dependent only on c, 7, F and G,such that
                      (13)                           IJ (¢) —SIy MPs 2) |S Bln,
                     whenever¢ (¢) and yx; are as in Lemma 1 above. It follows that
                     (14)                             fle, T,n)<f(c, T) + B'/n,
                      forallu=1,2,....
                         Let {ni} be a subsequence of {2} for which lim f(c, T, n:) = lim inf
                                                                                         ti-> ©                     n—-> co
                     f(c, T, n). Given ¢ > 0, let y (¢) be chosen so that
                     (15)                                  fle, T) <J (py) +6.
                     Now 9 (¢) is the limit almost everywhere of a sequence {qm (¢)} of step-
                     functions for which 0< gm (¢t) <1, and we have lim J (gm) = J (9).
                     Hence we may take the @ appearing in (15) to be a step-function, and
                     actually a step-function constant in each interval of the form k/n <t <
                     (k + 1)/n, for some arbitrarily large 1 = n;. From (13) we have
                     (16)      f(c, T) < Jy ({pe}, 2) + Bn +e<flc,T,n) + Bin te.
                     Hence
                     (17)         f(c,T)< hm f(c, T, 1) -- e = liminff(c, 7,”) +e.
                                                 n,—» CO                          n—-> co
                     262
                                                        A NEW FORMALISM
                    On the other hand, using (14) we see that
                    (18)                        lim supf(c, 7,2) <f(c, T).
                                               >CO
                    Since ¢ is arbitrary, we see that (12) holds.
                       If {yen} maximizes Jy ({yx}, ), then {qxn} determines for each n
                    = 1,2, ...,a step function @n (¢) with the property that
                    (19)                              lim J (yn) = fe, T).
                    If there is a convergent subsequence which converges almost everywhere
                    to a limit g (¢), then lim J (gn) = J (g), and g (¢) is a maximizing func-
                                                n—-> co
                    tion.
                       If this function possesses suitable monotonicity properties we can
                    employ Helly’s theorem to obtain a convergent sub-sequence. Otherwise,
                    we must use weak convergence arguments or analogous techniques.
                                            T
                          § 13. Max | F(x,y, t) dt
                                    ¥      oO
                       So far we have considered time independent processes—those where
                    F and G are independent of ¢. Let us now treat the more general case,
                    that of maximizing
                                                                  T
                    (1)                              Jo)= | Fewgat,
                    subject to the relation
                    (2)                         dx|dt == G (x, y, t) ,         x(O)=c.
                       In order to apply the functional equation technique, we imbed this
                    problem within the wider problem of determining the maximum of
                    (3)                              J(y) = [. F (x, y, t) dt,
                    subject to the constraint
                    (4)                       ax|/dt = G (x, y, t) ,          x(a) =c.
                    Here a ranges overthe interval [0, T].
                    Keeping J fixed, the two state variables are now a and c, and we may
                    write
                    (9)                                 Max J (vy) =f(a,c).
                                                           y
                                                                                                                  263
                                                       A NEW FORMALISM
                   The functional equation forfis
                    (6)       f(a) =Max CfFf)dt+fla+S,e(S))),
                                             [aca + 8]
                   for0 << S <T—a.
                       Letting S — 0, we obtain the equation
                    (7)                O = Max[F (c, v, a) + fa + G (ec, v, a) fol,
                   where v = v (a, c) is the valueof y (a).
                      From (7) we obtain the two equations
                   (8)                      0O=F(c,v,a)+fa+G(c, v, a)fe
                                            0 = Fy (c, v, a)          +Gy(c, v, a) fe
                   Solving forfa andf:, we obtain
                   (9)                     fe = —Fy/Gv = P(e, v, a)
                                           fa = (FG, — F,G)/G» = Q (c, 0, a),
                   As above, equating the values of fea and fac, we obtain the first order
                   partial differential equation forv,
                   (10)                           Pyvat Pa =Qvtve + Qe.
                      Those whoare familiar with quasi-linear partial differential equations
                   of this type will readily verify that the characteristics of this equation
                   are equivalent to the Euler equations obtained byclassical variational
                   techniques.
                         § 14. Generalization and discussion
                      If we now consider the problem of determining the maximum of the
                   functional
                   (1)                           To) = |Fe@.¥@)ae,
                   subject to relations
                   (2)                           dx/dt = g(x,y),         x(0)=c,
                   where x, y, c and g are n-dimensional column vectors, and F is a scalar
                   function of x and y,”? we can proceed in a similar fashion. Setting
                   (3)                              f(c, T) = Max J (y),
                      ‘ Any explicit dependence upon ¢ can always be removed by consideration of ¢
                   as a dependent variable x, ,,, defined by dx, + ,/dté = 1, x, + , (0) = 0.
                   264
                                                          A NEW FORMALISM
                    the principie of optimality yields the functional equation
                    (4)             fie S+T) = Max [F (x, y) dt +f(c(S), T)]
                                                          yl0.S|     Jo
                       The classical transversality conditions fall out as a special case in this
                    equation, as might be expected on the basis of the duality between point
                    and tangential coordinates which we haveindicated above.
                        Carrying throughthe calculations similar to those in (8) and (9) in § 11
                    above, we obtain a system of quasi-linear partial differential equations
                    for the vector v = v(c, T) = y (0).
                        This equation has a characteristic theory, and, as is to be expected,
                    the characteristics are equivalent to the Euler equations of the varia-
                    tional problem. The rigorous proof is quite complicated and will not be
                    presented here.
                           § 15. Integral constraints
                        Weconsidered above in §7 a variational problem where y was con-
                    strained by the condition 0 < y < x. Let us now discuss the problem for
                    the case where we impose the additional constraint
                                                                 yatsm.
                                                            |
                    (1)
                                                              0
                                               T
                    The minimum of | F (x, y) dt will now be function of the three state
                    variables c, TY and m. Denote it by f(c, T, m). Using the above methods,
                    we see that f satisfies the equation
                    (2)                   fr = Max [F (c, v) + G(c, v) fe —vfm].
                                                 O<v<e
                       Problems involving constraints of the type encountered in the pre-
                    ceding sections arise in the consideration of many physical problemsif
                    we impose realistic bounds on such quantities as velocity, acceleration,
                    radius of curvature, rate of allocation of resources, and so forth. Integral
                    constraints, such as that appearing above, or a constraint of the form
                      T
                    | y'? dt << m, appear if we assumethat resources are bounded, that the
                      0
                    kinetic energy is bounded, and so on.
                       Generally speaking, integral constraints are morereadilyhandled than
                    point constraints. Although, theoretically, the Lagrange multiplier
                    method is capable of treating both types of constraints, as well as more
                    general classes, in practice we encounterthe difficulty discussed above of
                    determining when the variable is within the domain of variability, and
                    whenit is on the boundary.
                                                                                                                   265
                                              A NEW FORMALISM
                      § 16. Further remarks concerning numerical solution
                   Let us consider the problem of determining the maximum ofthe in-
                 tegral
                 (1)                     J (x) = [, Fe x', t) dt,
                 where x (0) = c, but x is otherwise unrestrained. Assuming that F satis-
                 fies appropriate conditions, the solution is determined by the Euler
                 equation
                 (2)                      OF|éx — d/dt oFox’ = 0.
                   This is a second order equation, of the form
                 (3)                           x" = (x, x’, 2),
                which means that two boundary conditions are necessary to determine
                the solution. One condition is furnished by the original constraint x (0)
                 = c, while the other, arising from the variational procedure is
                                               oF
                                                
                (4)                             ah        =0
                                                OX   t-T
                   AS wesee, one condition is at ¢ = 0, and the other at t = 7. On the
                other hand,in order to integrate (3) in a convenient fashion, either with
                a digital computer or an analog computer, we require the values of x and
                x' att = 0 or at ¢ = T. Unfortunately, we do not obtain either of these
                sets of conditions from the above analysis.
                   Weare thus confrontedby theclassical difficulty ofatwo-pointbounda-
                ry condition. If is linear in x and x’, we face no particular difficulty; It,
                however, as is generally true, G is nonlinear, we must face the fact that
                there is no systematic technique for determining the solution of (3),
                satisfying (4) and the initial condition.
                   The usual procedureis to start the integration at ¢ = 0, beginning with
                a range of values of x’ (0), and narrowing the range until (4) is sufficiently
                well approximated. [his is a time-consuming procedure, sometimes com-
                plicated by stability problems, which becomesrapidly more inefficient as
                the dimension of the variational problem increases.
                  We have assumedthat Fis a function possessing a sufficiently smooth
                behaviorto justify the use of (2). If we allow F to possess terms such as
                |x —a|or Max (x —a, x’ — b, g (t)), functions which arise very na-
                turally in economic and engineering processes, the application of the
                usual variational approach becomesincreasingly difficult.
                  Combine the above complications with those furnished by the exist-
                ence of constraints, and we see that conventional methods must be sup-
                266
                                                A NEW FORMALISM
                 plemented if we wish to resolve a variety of problems arising in a very
                 natural way from the physical world.
                    Let us note, finally, that the remarks we made concerning the need
                 for a sensitivity or stability analysis, in Chapter 7 and in connection with
                 discrete decision processes, are, of course, equally valid in the context of
                 continuous decision processes.
                      § 17. Eigenvalue problem
                    Let us now devote our attention to the problems of determining the
                 values of A which permit a non-trival solution of the equation
                 (1)                           u" +-Ry(thu=0,
                                                u (0) = u (1) =: 0,
                 to exist.
                    The connection between our previous work and this problem, which at
                 first sight seems far removed,arises from the fact that under light condi-
                 tions on g (4), the eigenvalue problem is equivalent to the problem of
                                                             1
                 determining the relative minimaof | u’* dt subject to the gonstraints
                                    1
                 (2)              [o@wat=1,                   u (0) =u(l) =O,
                                                                                         1
                 or, conversely, to that of determining the relative maximaof | gy (t) u? at
                                                                                        0
                 subject to the constraints
                 (3)               [wra=a,                 u (0) =u(1) =0.
                   What makes this problem different in quality from those we have
                 considered aboveis the fact that as we traverse an extremal the condition
                 (0) = 0 is violated. Consequently, we must imbed this problem in a
                 more general class of problems possessing the requisite invariance pro-
                 perties if we wish to employ the functional equation approach. Happily,
                 there are several ways of doingthis.
                   In the first approach, we consider the minimization of
                 (4                             J(u) = |wae,
                 over all w satisfying the conditions
                 (5)                        (a)  u(a) =k, u(1) =0
                                            (b)  [eQwa=1
                                                                                                267
                                                        A NEW FORMALISM
                    Here the new state variable a satisfies the condition 0<.a< 1. We
                    assume that the function  (¢) satisfies the constraint0 << ),<p(t) <b,
                    for 0< ¢< 1, and is continuousover(0,1].
                       An equivalent problem is that of maximizing
                    6)                               K(u) =| puede,
                    subject to the constraints
                    (7                              (a)    u (a) =k, w(1) =0
                                                    (b)    [, wea,
                                                             a
                       Asecondless obvious formulation that serves the purposeis the follow-
                    ing: Minimize
                    (8)                                 J(u) =| wat
                                                                    a
                    subject to the constraints
                    (9)                 (a)    u(a)=0,u(1)=0,
                                        (>)   |POW+k—)eOuldt=1.
                          § 18. The first formulation
                       Let us set
                    (1)                            f(a, k) = Min [. uw’? at ,
                    subject to the constraints                           :
                    (2)                           (a)    u(a)=k,u(l) =0,
                                                  (b)    [90w2dt = 1
                       We write, along an extremal,
                   (3)                       @)    [|      p@wdt=1—se(@k,
                                                     at+s
                                             (b)   u(a+ts)=k+ 50,
                                             (c)   f(a, k) = 08s + [              u'? at ,
                                                                            at+s
                   to terms in 0 (s).8
                      8  In order to simplify the analysis, we shall proced directly to the derivation
                   of the limiting partial differential equation.
                   268
                                                       A NEW FORMALISM
                       Nowmake the change of variable
                   (4)                w(t) =(l—sg(a)k/2)w(t)at+ts<cti<l,
                   in order to maintain the condition (2b). We then have
                   (5)                (a)   w(a+s) =k + sv + sp (a) R°/2,
                                     (b)   f(a, k) = v's +(1—sq (a) B*) [.. w"? dt
                   to termsin 0 (s).
                      Combining the above results, we obtain the approximate functional
                   equation
                   (6)   f(a, k) = Min [v? s + (1 —sq (a) k?) f(a +s,k + sv
                                                      + s y (4) R?/2)] + 0(s).
                   Letting s —> 0, the result is the equation
                                          ,                           y (a) R°
                                                                      
                   (7)           O = Min [v? + vfx] + fa +                5,    fi —oy (a) k*f,
                   or
                   (8)                    fa =fu?/4 — p (a) RPfe/2 + y (a) RS
                      The initial condition is at a = 1, and not trivial, since f(a, k) > coas
                   a—> 1. There are two ways to determinethis initial condition, as we shall
                   discuss in the next section.
                         § 19. An approximate solution
                      If ais close to 1, and @ (¢) continuous, as assumed, we mayreplace the
                   variational problem in (17.1) and (17.2) by the approximate problem:
                                  1
                   Minimize i u’? dt, subject to the constraints
                                 a
                   (1)                            (a)   w(a)=k,u(l) =0
                   upon absorbing the factor             (1) into the function u (é).
                      This problem may be approached in two ways. Using the classical ap-
                   proach, we obtain the Euler equation
                   (2)                                   u" +Au-=-O0O,
                   which mayberesolved explicitly. The unknown parameteris determined
                   by the constraints in (la) and (1b).
                                                                                                             269
                                                         A NEW FORMALISM
                       The second methoduses (17.8) with @ (a) = 1. Since the solution of the
                    problem in (1) above is known for k = 0, namely
                                                                          m2
                    (3)                                 f(a, 0) = 1?’
                    we can obtain a solution to (17.8) as a powerseries in k, for k > 0. Since
                    we are primarily interested in the solution for small k, this is a useful
                    form of the solution for numerical purposes.
                          § 20. Second formulation
                       Weleave the derivation of the corresponding partial differential equa-
                    tion for the variational problem defined by (16.8) and (16.9) as an exercise
                    for the reader, with the hint that the essential point is to renormalize
                    u(t) constantly so as to maintain the initial condition u (a) = 0.
                          § 21. Discrete approximations
                       Since the partial differential equation for the minimum(a, k) posses-
                    ses certain unpleasant features as far as initial values are concerned, the
                    following discrete formulation may be of value.
                       Let us consider the problem of minimizing the function
                                                                           N
                                                                                           —1)?,
                                                                                       ux
                                                                                   —
                                                                              (ux
                                                                          2X
                                                                      =
                                                                —-1)
                                                            UN
                                                      ...,
                                                 Ug,
                                           (uy,
                                        F
                    (1)
                                                                        k=]
                    subject to the constraints
                                                            N—1
                                                                  goeue=1,
                                                              2
                                                       (a)
                    (2)
                                                            b=1
                                                       (b)   Ug = A, UN =O.
                       Corresponding to the use of the state variable R, we consider the se-
                    quence {fr (a)} defined as follows
                                                                    N
                    (3)                        fr(a) = Min & (uy — ue -1)?,
                                                            {u,} k= R
                    where the #, are subjected to
                                                               iV
                    (4)                                (a)     LS peut =1,
                                                             k=R
                                                      (b)    ur-1=4,un = 0,
                    fork =1,2,...,N—1.
                       Since this involves a variable range for each quantity wx, let us make a
                    change of variable
                    (5)                                      Pre = Vk,
                    270
                                                A NEW FORMALISM
                 under the assumption that 0 <b,<gr< db, < ofork = 0,1,2,...,N.
                 Then
                                                        NN   fue     ve-1\?
                 (6)                  Fr (a) = Min 2        ("—a,
                                                 {x} k= R\PK        PR-]
                 where
                                                   N
                                                              1
                                                          =
                                                      VE?
                                                  »
                                           (a)
                 (7)
                                                b= R
                                           (b)   vr-1=@r-14,Un = 0.
                   Weleave as an exercise the task of determining the recurrence relation
                 for the sequence{fr (a)}.
                      § 22. Successive approximation
                   Returning to the equation
                                                      S
                 (1)               f(c) = Max [| °F (x,y) dt + f(e(S))).
                                           D{0,S}     Jo
                 obtained in § 3, it is tempting to envisage the use of successive approxi-
                 mations for the solution of the equation. If, however, we choose an
                 initial functionf, (c), and define a second approximation by meansof the
                 equation
                                                      S
                 (2)              fi(c) = Max [         F(x,y) dt + fo (e (S))],
                                           D(0, 8]   o
                 we see that in the limit, as S + 0, we must have fj (c) = fo (c), provided
                 that fo (c) is continuous.
                   At first sight, this would seem to render the use of successive approxi-
                 mations impossible. Actually this is not so. What is true is that we must
                 approximate in policy space rather than in function space. We must con-
                 centrate our attention primarily upon v = v(c,7) rather than upon
                f(c, T). Nonetheless, f(c, 7) still plays an important auxilaryrole.
                   To illustrate this point, let us discuss the problem of maximizing
                 (3)                          J iy) = [ F (x, y) dt,
                 subject to the relations
                 (4)                     dx/dt =G (x,y),       x(O)=c.
                 Then, as in § 6, we obtain the equation
                 (5)                    fr = Max [F (c, v) + G(c, v) fel.
                                                                                               271
                                           A NEW FORMALISM
               Let us now choose an initial approximation v, = vo (c, T), which is
               equivalent to yo = Yo (x, TY — #), keeping in mindthe connection between
               physical time ¢, and T, the remaining time for the process. Using this
               value of yo, we compute % by meansof the differential equation,
               (6)           AX[dt = G (Xo, Vo (%o, LT —t)),    xo (0) =c,
               and then f, (c, T) by meansof
               (7)                    fole, T) = |" F (xe, yo) dt.
               This function, fo, satisfies the linear partial differential equation
               (8)                   for = F (¢, vo) + G (C, Vo) foe «
                 To obtain the next approximation to an extremal y, or an optimal v,
               we determine v, (c, T) as a function which maximizes the function
               (9)                        F(c,v) + G(c, v) foc.
               Using v, (c, T), we obtain y, (x, 7 — 7?) and then x, and f, as above.
               Having obtained f, we compute v, as a function which maximizes
               (10)                       F (c,v) + G(c, v) fic,
               and continue in this way, deriving a sequence of approximations to
               f, {fn}, and a sequence of approximationsto v, {vn}.
                    § 23. Monotone approximation
                 Let us now showthat this sequence of approximations tofis monotone
               increasing, a fact which is important theoretically and computationally.
               Wehave
               (1)      fir =F (c, Vv) + G (c, v,) hie ,
                        for = F (c, vo) + G (C, Vo) foe < F (c, vy) + G (c, v1) foe.
               Hence
               (2)                  (fi —fo)r = G (c, v1) (fi —fode.
                 Since fi (c, 0) = fo (c, 0) = 0, we see that f, —f, > 0 for all T > 0.
                 Continuing in this way, we readily establish the monotone property
               of the sequence {fn}. If the sequence is uniformly bounded, we have
               convergence. However, it is essential to know when the sequence of
               partial derivatives, {func}, {fnr}, and the sequence of policies {vn} also,
               converge. The general question is a difficult one and weshall not enter
               into it here.
                  It is interesting to note, however, that we do possess a systematic
               technique for improving any particular policy.
               272
                                                         A NEW FORMALISM
                          § 24. Uniqueness of solution
                       As we have noted above, we are bypassing any of the rigorous aspects
                    of the derivation of the partial differential equations we have encoun-
                    tered and any studyof the existence of the solution of these equations.
                    It is, however, worth noting that the unzqueness of solution may bees-
                    tablished quite readily by means of the same device we have formalized
                    as Lemma 1 in Chapter 3.
                       Consider, for example, the equation
                    (1)                       fr = Max ([F (c, v) + G (ce, v) fel,
                    and assumethatthere exists another solution of this equation, g = g (c,T),
                    which possesses the sameinitial value, namelv
                    (2)                               f(c, 0) = g(c,0) =9,
                    for all c. Then, we havealso
                    (3)                       gr = Max ([F (c, w) + G(c, w) gel.
                                                         u
                    Let v = v(c, T) be a function which furnishes the maximum in (1) and
                    w = u'(c, fT) a function which furnishes the maximum in (3). Then we
                    have the inequalities
                    (4)            fr=F(c,v) + G(c,v)fe > F (c, w) + G (c, w) fe
                                   gr =F (c,w) + CG (c, ve) ge > F (c,v) + Gc, v) ge.
                       These inequalities yield
                    (5)                           fr—gr =G(c, w) (fe — ge)
                                                              <= G (¢, v) (fe — 8c) «
                    Thus, if we set u = f— g, we see that wu satisfies the inequalities
                    (6)                          G (Cc, @) Ue Ur<G(c, v) ue.
                       Since the solutions of
                    (7)                    x7 —G(c,w)x%e=0,                  x(c,0)=0,
                                           yr —G(c,v) ve = 9,                ylc,0) = 9,
                    are identically zero, it follows from a comparison theorem that # is
                    identically zero.
                          § 25. Minimum maximum deviation
                       Let us now discuss the numerical solution of a variational problem
                    of the following type:
                                                                                                                  273
                                                             A NEW FORMALISM
                         Minimize
                     (1)                                       Max |u—a|,
                                                             O<t<T
                     over all functions v (¢) satisfying the constraint — 1< v<_], where
                     (2)                               duldt = g(u,v),u(0O) =c,.
                         Consider the corresponding discrete process where
                     (3)                         Uk+1 = Un + g (Uk, Ve) A, Uo = C4,
                     and uz, = u(kA),A = T/N, vz = 0 (RA).
                         Define
                     (4)                         fv (¢;) = Min           Max       |uz—a
                                                                 {r,}  O<hk<Nn
                     Then
                     (5)                                   fo (C1) = |¢1— a],
                     and
                     (6)            fy +1 (€:) = Max [| ¢,— a], wn fy (C1 + 8 (€1, v) A),
                                                                              je] <1
                     for N =0,1,2,....
                        Wehave thus reduced thesolution of the original variational problem
                     to a computation of a sequence of functions of one variable determined
                     by the foregoing recurrence relation.
                            Exercises and Research Problems for Chapter IX
                      1. Obtain functional equations for the following quantities
                        a.     Max |"fe dt,f(0                e       [.fed =1
                        b.    Max [pom dt,f(0) =e,                   [Uf)? dt = 1
                        c     Max [-4.F0 = 6,                         [frdi<a,                [2ftdi<b
                     2.  Obtain functional equationsfor the following quantities
                        a.   Max |feat,£0) == c,fmonotone increasing, [rf dt <1
                                                                                                   O
                                      0
                               f
                                       T
                        b. Max | feat,f(0) =c,fmonotoneincreasing and convex (concave),
                              if      oO
                               T
                             [ faah
                     274
                                                                                        A NEW FORMALISM
                               3. Carry through the analysis suggested in § 18 and obtain the first few
                               terms of the expansion off(a, k) as a powerseries in k, for a close to I.
                               4. Followthesameprocedurefor the second formulation of the eigenvalue
                               problem.
                               5. Obtain a functional equation for the following quantitv
                                                                                            T
                                                                               Min | (x —c)? + RP dt,
                                                                                  tf       0
                                                                             dx/dt = —ax +f,x(0) =c.
                               6.    Obtain a corresponding result for the general case
                                                                                           V—1
                                                                                      T a“
                                                                         Min | PS (x) — cy)? +f] dt,
                                                                            f        Jo    K=0
                                                                    xO) — a, xN8-D4+ ... +anx+f,
                                                                      xk) (0) = cr, h=0,1,...,N—1.
                               7. Use the functional equation approach to determine the minimum of
                                   T
                              | (1 —x)? dt overfwhere 0<f<M,M +1, dx/dt=—x+f,
                                                                                                           T
                                                                        x (0) = 1, and | fdt<a<T,
                              8. Under the same conditions determine the minimum of
                                                                                             |" (dxldt)?dt.
                                                                                                    T
                               9, Determine the minimum of | f? at overallf satisfying
                                        dxjdt =—x+f,x*(0)=ll—ax<x<l+ator0<t<T.
                                                                                                       r
                               10. Determine the minimum of |                                              (x — y) dt over y, given that
                                   a. ax/dt = b(y),x(0) =c,O<y<x,
                                   b. 6” (y) is continuous and b" (y) < 0, 0’ (y) > 0
                                    c.    b' (0+) = + co
                               11. Consider the same problem under the assumption that 6’ (0+) is
                               finite.
                                                                                                                                                                                 275
                                                              A NEW FORMALISM
                      12.   Determine the minimum of [
                                                                            K(y) + L (x—y)] dt over all y where
                                                                       0
                         a.   kK (0) = L (0) =0
                         b. A" (x), L” (x) > 0 for all x
                                                                         (O) =e,b>a>0.
                         c.   dx/dt = —ay — b(x — y),
                      13.   Consider the problem of minimizing the functional
                                  J(x) = [> as (tb,(0)? +aa(W — a (OY)
                      O<s<T, over all functions x such that x (s) = c, and |                                      "2 dt << 00
                                                                                                             s
                      Assume that all functions appearing are continuous and that a; (¢) > 0
                      in the interval 0, T]
                         Define
                                                          fi(c, s) = Min J (x,s)
                      Show that
                                                                                                          Ss),
                                         fs = — a, (s) (¢ — By (s))? + befe —fe?/4ae (
                                                           f(c, T) = 0 for all c¢
                      14. Show thatf(c, s) = u(s) + cv(s) + cw
                                                                                     w (s),  where wu, v and w depend
                     only upons.
                      15.  Show that uw, v and w satisfy the equations
                                         |
                         (a)  m” (s)       —ay (s) 6,’ (8) + by (s) v
                                                                               (s) — v? (s)/4az(s) ,
                                                                               s) — v (s) w (s)/az (s) ,
                         (b) vu" (s) = 2a, (s) 6
                                                      1 (s) + 2b, (s) w(s
                         (c)  w’ (s) = — a, (s) — w? (s)/ae(s) ,
                     with u(T) = v(T) =w(T) = 0
                     16.   Obtain the corresponding results for the functional
                                                   T
                                    T(x) = | ia ( 0(OY +a2©x! —ba)? +
                                                           ay (t) (x"— by (t))*)
                     17.   Consider the following discrete analogue of the problem in 13
                         Wewish to minimize the function
                                                       |
                                                           My
                                             wy              [px (XK) + Wx (XK — Xx - 4)]
                                                  S
                                                           i
                                                            1
                     276
                                                                                                                    A NEW FORMALISM
                                        over all possible values of the xx, K = 1,2,...,N, with x, =x. As
                                         usual, assume that mx (x) and wx (x) are continuous functions, with
                                        appropriate properties at x = oo.
                                               Show that this problem leads to the sequence {fx (x)} defined as follows
                                                                                    fn (x) = Minyn(xx) + pw (ew — x)],
                                                                                                                 uy
                                                                    fr (x) = Min ime (xr) + pr (¥r — x) + fri (XR).
                                                                                                  “R
                                         18. Consider, in particular, the case where yx and yx are quadratic in x,
                                        with mx = bx (x — dx)*, px = cx x?. Show that, in this case, fn (x)
                                         = Un + UN X 4+wy X*, where wy, vw and wy are independentof x.
                                         19. Show that
                                        un—1 = 'bn-10?n—1 + Un — (dw—1 bn-1 —Un/2)?]/fbn-1 + en-1 + WN]
                                                                                                                 —2en ~1 (dy —~1 bn ~1 — vy/2)
                                                                                      UN -1 =
                                                                                                                                by —-1 + €n-1 + UN
                                                                                                                                     én -1 (On 4- wn)
                                                                                                  wn -—1 =
                                                                                                                               by 1+ en1+ WN
                                         20. Let {xx} denote the sequence of minimizing xx’s. Show that
                                                                                                                           xe, -+ dy db, —2,/2,
                                                                                                        X,=-                            -                    -——
                                                                                                                                   bg + €y + We
                                                                                           x                XK-1+ de—-1 bx—~1— VK 41/2
                                                                                              kK => --——                              H—-     He       -       -— — -——
                                                                                                                                 bx + ex + Wk
                                        21. Treat in a corresponding manner the problem of minimizing the
                                        expression
                                                                             Ny
                                                     J (*) = &[aw (xn — bx)? + ex (XK — XK - 1)? + gx (Sk — dx)?],
                                                                         A -        1
                                        where sx == %, + %, +... + Xx.
                                        22. Consider the stochastic case where the parameters appearing are
                                        stochastic variables, and it is desired to minimize the expected value of
                                        J (x).
                                        23. Consider the scalar equation
                                                                                                         du/dt = g(u,v),u(0) =c,
                                        where v is to be chosen so as to minimize the functional J (v) =
                                        [h(u—c) dt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        277
                                                                      A NEW FORMALISM
                        Let f(c, T) = Min J (v), and derive a functional equation for /.
                         24. Consider the process where we wish to minimize
                                                                     [, h (u —w(t) dt.
                                                                       O
                         25. Consider the problem where we wish to minimize
                                                                      Max .u—a(t)i,
                                                                   Ot: T
                        where a (¢) is a known function of ¢.
                         26. Consider a corresponding two-dimensional problem, using the
                        equation
                                                           uw" +b(we—Iw +u=f(,
                        with —Il1<f(i)<l.
                         27. Treat in the same fashion the problem of maximizing
                                                                                                    dt,
                                                                                               (x,y)
                                                                                     Min
                                                                                [>
                                                                            =
                                                              T(f.8)
                        where
                                                               dx/dt == ax + f, x (0) = ¢,,
                                                               dy/dt = by + g,v (0) = Cy,
                        and the functions f(¢) and g(¢) satisfied the constraints.
                                                                    f+v=lLfe>0.
                        28. Consider the equation
                                         d*u/dt? 4+- a? u = f(t), u (0) = c, wv’ (0) = c,, a@ <1.
                            Wewishto choosef(¢) subject to — 1 <f(t) < 1 so as to reduce u to
                        zero in minimum time. Whatis the corresponding functional equation?
                        29. Obtain the solutions of the brachistochrone and isoperimetric prob-
                        lems using the functional equation approach.
                        30. Determine the path of a ray of hght through an inhomogeneous
                        medium, assuming that the path minimizes time.
                        31. Consider the problem of determining the minimum of
                                                 Jnw(w) =            Max Max ‘| uy
                                                                                                      | — Vr| |,
                                                                                                 y
                                                                                                      
                                                                  Ow kN
                        over all sequences {u'y} satisfying the conditions |w,| < 1, where
                                                           Uk -1 = & (ux, Up, wr), Ug == C1,
                                                           Ue ty = h (tx, Uk, Wk), Vo = Co.
                        278
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                    A NEW FORMALISM
                                   Let
                                                                                           fx(C1, C2) = Min Jy(w).
                                   Show that
                                        fx +1 (€1, €2) = Max! 'ci!, |1 —ce|, Minfy (g (c1, c2, w), A (C1, C2, w)) ].
                                                                                                                          lar}   < 1
                                   32. Obtain the corresponding recurrence relations for the case where
                                                                                       Jv(w) =                     Max Dx (ux, ve).
                                                                                                             Qak<oNn
                                   33. Consider a rocket-powered aircraft moving in level flight with a
                                   mass equal to the fixed mass of the aircraft, w, plus the mass of the
                                   fuel, m. The force of propulsion is taken to be a known function of the
                                   rate of burning of the fuel, the velocity of the aircraft and the mass of
                                   the fuel. Equivalently the force of propulsion is a known function of
                                   the thrust and drag, which are, in turn, known functions of the burning
                                  rate, the velocity, and the mass.
                                   Let
                                   (1)        x (2)                     = the distance along the x-axis from the origin at time¢.
                                             v (t)                      = velocity of the aircraft.
                                             m(t)                       = mass of fuel.
                                             ze"                        = fixed mass of aircraft.
                                             y (t)                      = burning rate of fuel.
                                             F (y, v, m) = force of propulsion.
                                  Then
                                                                                                              d?x             FE
                                                                                         (w + m) dt                                 (y, uv, m),
                                  or
                                                                                                   dv
                                                                             (w +m) — = Fy, », m), 2 (0) = vo
                                  and
                                                                                            dm
                                                                                            —=—y,m(0) = mo.
                                                                                             at
                                  34. Consider a discrete version of the process described above, and
                                  impose a restriction on the burning rate, O< y() < R.
                                  Let
                                            f(v, m) = the range covered starting with initial velocity v and a
                                                                      quantity of fuel m, ending with terminal velocity v7,
                                                                      using an optimal burning policy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       279
                                               A NEW FORMALISM
                Show that
                                                           F(y,v,m) A
                         f(v,m) = vd + Max [f(v + ————— ,m—yA/)}
                                           O<y<R               wt+m
                and show how the quantity vr enters.
                                    (R. Bellman — S. Dreyfus, H. Cartaino — S. Dreyfus)*
                 35. Similarly, let us define
                f(v, m,d) = the time required to traverse a distance d, starting from
                               initial velocity vo and a given quantity m of fuel, with a
                               required terminal velocity vr, using an optimal burning
                               policy.
                Show that
                    f(v,m,d) =A + Min [f(v rem yad—2A)).
                                       O<y<Rk             w+ mM
                36. Consider the equation
                    SataypearteenF0,400)=a.x'0) =e
                                                  ax                        ,
                where the function v = v (x, TP t)is to be determined, subject to the
                 constraint |v) < 1, so as to minimize the expected value of
                                                       T
                                           J (y= [oat |e(D1,
                                                      oO
                over a suitable class of random functions (?).
                   Going over to the discrete version, show that we obtain the recurrence
                relation
                              fo (C1, C2) = Acy? + Icy + C2A| ,
                             In (C1, C2) =   Min [Aci? oF [- In —1 (Cy + cA, Cg +
                                            le] <1
                                             [— (c1? — 1) cz —e1 + 70 + v0] A) dG (10) J,
                 where dG (70) is the distribution function for the independent random
                 variables {7;}.
                 37, Consider the linear equation
                              a?                        d
                                                                                   =e,
                                                                               0)
                                                                            2
                                                                      =a,
                                                        7.4.40)
                                              +e
                                      ear
                              gat
                 * H. Cartaino - S. Dreyfus, Application of Dynamic Programming to the
                 Minimum Time-to-Climb Problem, Aeronautical Engineering Review, 1957.
                280
                                                                A NEW FORMALISM
                       where v is to be determined so as to minimize the expected value of
                                                                        T
                                                        J (x) = [0°        tx® + (deja)de
                                                                       oO
                       Find the corresponding recurrence relations, determine the structure of
                       the sequence {fx (ci, c2) }, and the optimal policy.*
                       38. Returning to the problem discussed in 7, consider the problem of
                       determining v so as to minimize
                                                       J =Prob{ Max |x| >a}.
                                                                          O< t< T
                       Show that the discrete version leads to recurrence relation
                                                                     .      *Co
                                        fn +1 (C1, C2) =          Main     |      fn (er + ¢2A, cg +
                                                                             —- OOo
                                                                le] <1
                                                                        |
                                                                         —
                                                                              (cy2
                                                                                    —
                                                                                        1)
                                                                                            cz
                                                                                                —
                                                                                                    ¢1
                                                                                                        +
                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                +
                                                                                                                    v0JA)
                                                                                                                            dG
                                                                                                                                 (ro)
                       39. Consider the case where the 7; are not independent. Assume,to begin
                      with, that the distribution of 7» +1 depends on the value of 7x. Define
                      fn (C1, 2,7”) = Minimum expected value of /x, given the initial state
                                            (c1, C2), and the information that the value of the random
                                            variable at the preceding stage was /.
                      Show that the recurrence relation for the sequence {fy} 1s
                                  In (C1, C2, r) = Min | Aci? of [ Is _] (Cy + co A, Ce +
                                                                [—— (¢12 — 1) co —c1 + ro + vo] A) dG (ro, 7)]
                      40. Consider the problem of determining a monotone decreasing sequence
                      of approximations to the first characteristic value of wu” + Ap (t) uw = 0,
                      u(O) = u(l) = 0. Let w(t) be a continuous positive function of ¢ in
                      '0, 1], so that the first characteristic value is defined by
                                                                                   1
                                                                                | u’* at
                                                            At = Min              o
                                                                        "       [eou?at
                                                                                  O
                         Let us approximate in policy space by considering functions w’(¢)
                      which are constant on the intervals |AA, (k + 1).4],
                      k=0,1,2,...,N—1, N4 = 1,1.
                                                    u(t) = up RASt<(k+))A.
                          Let Ai (N) denote the minimum overthis space. Show that
                                                               Ay (N) > Ai (2.N),
                      *  Rk.   Bellman, Dynamic Programming and Stochastic Control Processes,
                      Trans. I.R.E., 1957.
                                                                                                                                281
                                              A NEW FORMALISM
                 and derive a recurrence method for computing A; (N).
                 41. Consider the corresponding problem for the equation
                         u(t) + Ag (t) u = 0, «(0) =u’ (0) =u (1) =u’ (1) =0,
                 corresponding to the variational problem defined by
                                                            1
                                                          | u’2 at
                                                           0
                                         Ai = Min           ;
                                                 "        |  (t) u? dt
                                                           0
                             Bibliography and Comments for Chapter IX
                   § 1. The method presented in this chapter was announced in R. Bellman,
                “Dynamic Programming and a new formalism in the calculus of variations,”’
                Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., vol. 39 (1953), pp. 1077-1082.
                   § 3. A number of applications of the functional equation approach to
                mathematical economics may be found in R. Bellman, ‘‘On the Application
                of Dynamic Programming to Variational Problems arising in Mathematical
                Economics,’’ Proc. Symposium on Calculus of Variations and Applications,
                Chicago, 1956.
                   § 7. A treatment of the problem in this section using classical variational
                techniques may be found in R. Bellman, W. Fleming and D. V. Widder,
                “Variational Problems Involving Constraints,’ Annali di Matematica, 1956.
                   § 11. A discussion of this problem may be found in R. Bellman, ‘‘Notes
                on the Theory of Dynamic Programming,” Jour. Soc. Ind. Appl. Math., 1955.
                   § 12. A convergence proof of a different type, based upon the functional
                equations describing the process, may be found in R. Bellman, ‘‘Functional
                Equations in the Theory of Dynamic Programming—VI, A Direct Con-
                vergence Proof,’’ Annals of Math., 1957.
                  The proof given here is due to W. Fleming.
                  § 14. A proof of the equivalence of the characteristics of the system of
                quasilinear partial differential equations for the v; and the Euler equations
                obtained in the usual manner has been obtained by H. Osborn. It may be
                found in Chapter 7 of Rk. Bellman, ‘“‘DDynamic Programming of Continuous
                Processes’. The RAND Corporation, R-271, 1954.
                  § 21. This last formulation seems the most promising for computational
                purposes.
                  § 22. The results of this section were sketched in Ik. Bellman, ‘‘Monotone
                Approximation in lyynamic Programming and the Calculus of Variations,”’
                Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., vol. 40 (1954), pp. 1073-5.
                  § 25. A discussion of the application of the functional equation technique
                to some analytic problems arising from control processes may be found in
                R. Bellman, “On the Application of Dynamic Programming to the Study
                of Control Processes,’ Proc. Symposium on Nonlinear Control Processes,
                Bklyn Polytechnic Inst., 1956.
                252
                              CHAPTER X
                          Multi-Stage Games
             § 1. Introduction
            In the previous chapters we have discussed a number of decision pro-
          cesses which,although of different origins and varying analytic structure,
          possess an important feature in common—all decisions are directed
          towardsthe single goal of maximizing the value of the criterion function.
          In this chapter we shall consider a class of multi-stage decision processes
          where this unanimity of purpose no longer holds true. Some decisions
          will be made to maximize and some to minimize.
            Perhaps the most interesting fashion in which we encounter those cross-
          purpose processesis in the study of activities in which two animate adver-
          saries counter optimal moves at each stage of the process.
            A numberof situations in the economic world may be profitably con-
          sidered in these terms, and the theory of games of chance and skill
          affords a numberof fascinating applications of the general techniques.
            Furthermore, in the physical world, in connection with testing and
          experimentation, it is often useful to conceive of nature, in some vague
          anthropomorphic fashion, as an opponent attempting to conceal the
          truth from us. The design of experiments may be conceived of as a game
          in which we attempt to extract information from a stubborn, but fair,
          opponent.
            The mathematical theory developed in recent years to treat problems
          characterized by this interplay between divergent aimsis the theory of
          games. Although a good deal of effort had been directed in this direction
          by E. Borel, the theory rests upon a fundamental result of von Neumann,
          the celebrated min-max theorem. Weshall very briefly discuss the foun-
          dations of the theory prior to a discussion of multi-stage games.
            These multi-stage games may be considered not only to constitute an
          extension of the single-stage theory, but in many ways they may be con-
          sidered to be more fundamental. The single-stage game may be conceived
          of as a steady-state version of an original dynamic process, namely the
          multi-stage process.
            After these preliminaries, we shall discuss some particular multi-stage
          games arising from multi-stage allocation processes, and then consider
                                                        283
                                                                                      MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                               “games of survival’ and pursuit games. Following these examples, we
                               shall present a general formulation, along the lines of Chapter 3, and then,
                               as in Chapter 4, prove a numberof existence and uniqueness theoremsfor
                               certain important special classes of equations.
                                    In the main, the techniques used correspond to those employed in the
                               treatment of the one-person processes. Games of survival, however, pre-
                               sent special difficulties, requiring more advanced tools for a general
                               treatment. The method we employ1s applicable only to a restricted class
                               of equations.
                                   One of the interesting aspects of games of survival is the application
                              of this concept to the study of non-zero-sum games, wherethe playersare
                               no longer in direct opposition. A formulation of these games in termsof
                               survival enables us to remetrize these games so as to make them zero-
                              sum. Furthermore, as we shall show below,a quite reasonable approxima-
                               tion enables us to derive a new metric for non-zero-sum games, one with
                               an associated min-max theorem.
                                        §2. A Single-stage discrete game
                                   Weshall now consider a class of decision processes involving two
                              persons which weshall call games. The two protagonists, whom weshall
                              call players, will be namedrather prosaically A and B.1 Let us consider a
                              particular game.
                                   The rules of the game are as follows. The first player, A, has a choiceof
                              M different plays, which we shall designate by the numbers 1, 2, ...,
                              M, and the second player, B has a choice of N different plays, denoted by
                               1,2,..., N. If A chooses the z—t* of his alternatives and B the 7—*® of
                              his alternatives, A receives a quantity aij and B a quantity Ci,;. If these
                              quantities are positive, we may think of them as gains, and if negative as
                              losses.
                                   A convenient way to indicate these returns or payoffs, is by means of
                              the two payoff or game matrices
                              (1)                      Ma = (ai;3),Mp = (0), lt Mi,1l<j<nN.
                                   Let us now consider the single-stage process where each player makes
                              precisely one play. The determination of optimal play, defined as that
                              which maximizes return, is straightforward if A is required to move
                              before B and if B can use this information. If A takes the z—t» alternative,
                             B chooses 7 = 7(t) so as to maximize 6;;. Consequently A chooses 2 so as to
                             maximize @;, ji). A similar rule determines the choice of 7if B is required
                              to movefirst.
                                  1   The successors of the algebraic 4, B, and C discussed by S. Leacock.
                             284
                                          MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                 The only interesting case is that where both players are required to
               move simultaneously, without knowing of the other’s choice.
                 In these circumstances, they can protect themselves by mixing their
               choices, which is to say they will randomize their choices in a certain
               fashion. Let us assume then that A makes the z—*t® choice with prob-
               ability #; and B the y7—*® choice with probability g;. The vector p =
               (pi, Do, -.-, Pm) Specifies A’s probability distribution and the vector g
               = (91, Jo, ---, Yn) Specifies B’s probability distribution.
                 Asin our discussion of the stochastic processes of the previous chapters,
               we can no longer speak of the return, but must agree to consider some
               average return. The simplest such, as usual, is the expected return. The
               expected return to A will be
                                                  MoON
               (2)                   Ealpiqg= 2X       2» ay pig,
                                                i=1 j=1
               while that for B is
                                                  Mo  oN
               (3)                   Es(h,qy= 2%       2 by higz.
                                                i=l j=1
                 Thefirst player would like to choose   so as to maximize E4, while the
               second player would like to choose g so as to maximize Fg.
                   § 3. The min-max theorem
                 In order to obtain definitive results, we must assumethat the players
               are in direct opposition, expressed by the relation
               (1)                           bi; = — aij.
               In this case, the gameis called zero-sum, and only in this case does a
               satisfactory general theory exist. We then have
               (2)                     Ex (p,q) =—Ea(p, 9),
               from whichit is clear that any choice of # and g which increasesE 4 (P,q)
               decreases Ez (p, g), and vice versa.
                 It is sufficient then to consider FE4 (p, g) in our further discussion. We
               can, using this expression, define two values of the game,
               (3)                     Va = Min Max Ea(, @)
                                               q    p
                                      Ve = Max Min Eg (p, q).
                                               p    q
               The first is the expected return to A if B is required to choose g before A
               chooses #, while the second is the value to A if the situation is reversed.
                                                                                    285
                                                                             MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                It is a remarkable fact (the min-max theorem of von Neumann), the
                            basic result in the theory of games, that
                            (4)                                                       Va=Va.
                            This commonvalueis called the value of the game. Weshall assume this
                            result without proof here.
                                The interpretation of this result is that A can announcehis probability
                            distribution # in advance,and likewise B can announce q, without either
                            gaining from this advance knowledge. This is neither an intuitive, nor a
                            trivial, result, but it is true.
                                    § 4. Continuous games
                                Let us now suppose that in place of choosing one of a discrete set of
                           moves, A must choose from a continuum and similarly B. As a simple
                           example, suppose that A must choose a real number x in the interval
                            [O, 1], and B similarly a real numbery in [0, 1]. Considering the zero-sum
                            case only, there is now a payoff function K (x, y) which measures the
                            value of this set of moves to A, with — K {x, y) the value to B.
                                If A chooses a distribution F (x) to govern the frequency with which
                           he chooses x, and B the distribution function G (y), the expected gain to
                           A will be
                           (1)                                  Va= [, [, K y) dF (x) dG iy).
                               The continuous analogue of the min-max theorem is theresult:
                           (2)                                  Max Min V4 = Min Max V4,
                                                                  I         G                    G       F
                           where the variation is over the space of functions defined by
                           (3)                                      (a) dF > 0, [, dF (x) = 1,
                                                                                             1
                                                                    (b) dG > 0, {, dG (y) =1,
                           provided that K (x, y) is jointly continuous in x, y over the unit square.
                           If K (x, y) is not continuous, (2) need not hold, and V4 (F, G) need not
                           even exist for all & and G.
                               2  This theorem is a very fine illustration of the utility of the Stieltjes integral,
                           since the result is not valid if we consider only functions F (x) and G (y) whichare
                           integrals, i.e., dF (x) =                 (x) dx, dG (y) = yp (y) dy.
                           286
                                              MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                      § 5. Finite resources
                   In manysituations involving multi-stage play, the above modelis not
                 satisfactory. This is particularly so in multi-stage processes where each
                 player possesses finite resources. Here the choice of plays depends upon
                 the quantity of resources available, and the game terminates when either
                 player has no resources. Consequently we cannot consider the set of NV
                 gamesas consisting of N disjoint plays.
                   Let us consider a simple example. Suppose that A has a quantity x and
                 Baquantity y. At each stage each player mayallocate 1 or 2 units of his
                 resources with the return ai; to A if A makes an allocation of z and B an
                 allocation of 7, and a return of — aij to B, where 2,7 = 1,2.
                   Here, for the sake of initial simplicity, the return aj; 1s in units different
                 from those of x and y, and so cannot be reconverted into resources.
                   Let us take the process to terminate as soon as either side has no re-
                 sources and suppose that each plays to maximize his total return. As-
                 sume that we may define the function
                 (1)  f(x, y) = expected return from the process to A when A has x and
                                 B has y initially, and each employs an optimal policy.
                   On the first move, A mixes his choices according to the probability
                 distribution p = (f,, f.) and B according to the distribution g = (4, 4s),
                 where # and q will, in general, be functions of x and y.
                   An enumeration of possibilities yields the relation
                                           2     2
                 (2)          f(x y)=2%         2 pig laa t+f(e—ty—a))
                                         ~7=17=1
                 for an optimal policy, assuming for the moment that the principle of
                optimality is equally valid for multi-stage games. A proof of this will be
                given in § 9. Thus the functional equation forf(x, y) 1s
                (3)      f(y) = Max Min |              S pi ata+fe—iy—9)]
                                      p     q   W=1j=1
                                       .          2     2
                                 =
                                    Min
                                          Max
                                               |
                                                 2
                                                       a
                                                          peas
                                                                lay
                                                                    +f
                                                                         (ei,
                                                                                 y
                                                                                   3)
                                      qg    p   ~=1j=1
                for x, y > 0, with the boundary conditions
                (4)                     f(x,y) = O0ifx<Oory<0.
                     § 6. Gamesof survival
                   Returning to the game described in § 2, let us take A to have x, B to
                have y and assumethat the returns a;; and b;; are in the same units as x
                                                                                              287
                                             MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                and y, say dollars, and that b:; = — aj, the zero-sum case. Let us now
                suppose that the gameis continued until one player is ruined, and that
                each player attempts to ruin the other. A gameof this type we call a game
                of survival, It is a generalized “‘gambler’s ruin’’ problem.
                   Assuming the existence of the function
                 (1)  f(%, y) = probability that A ruins B when A has x, B has y, and
                                 each player employs an optimal policy,
                 and proceeding as before, we obtain the functional equation
                (2)           f(x, y) = Max Min 2’ f(x + aij, y — aig) Pi Q
                                            pP   4  (i
                                       =
                                          Min
                                               Max
                                                    2
                                                       f
                                                         (x
                                                            +
                                                               aij,
                                                                   y
                                                                     —
                                                                        aij)
                                                                             Di
                                                                               Gy
                                                                                  ,
                                           q    Pp  tj
                x, ¥ > 0, with the boundary conditions
                (3)                     f(ey) =1x>0,y<0,
                                                 =0,*7<0,y >0.
                   Since the gameis zero-sum, the quantity of resources in the gamere-
                mains constant. Thus the state of the process is specified by x, the quan-
                tity possessed by A. Setting x + y =c, and f(x, y) = f(x), we obtain
                the simpler equation
                (4)   f(%) = Max Min 2 f(x + aij) iq; = Min Max 2 f(x + ais) iq,
                                                                  ;           .
                                 p    q  %,j                           Dp   1,9
                for0 <x <c,withf(x) = Oforx<0,f(v¥)=I1x>c.
                     § 7. Pursuit games
                   Anotherinteresting class of games are those involving the pursuit of
                one player by another. In some cases there is a question as to whether
                one player can catch the other, in other cases where capture is certain,
                the problem is to determine the choice of paths for one player which
                minimizes the time of capture and for the other player a path which
                maximizes the time of capture.
                   The continuous versions of these problems are quite difficult to for-
                mulate rigorously, and as a consequence mostof the results obtained in
                this connection pertain to the discrete version.
                   Consider the following simple problem. The two players, A and B are
                situated at the points kA, /A respectively on the line, where A > 0 and
                k and / are integers or zero. At each move of the game, each player has
                the choice of moving one unit to the right or to the left. Moves are made
                simultaneously with full information as to the positions of each player.
                288
                                             MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                After each movethere is pay-off from B to A of an amount g (d) where d
                = | k—1|A, the distance between the players. Furthermore,there is a
                probability 1 — a (d) that the process terminates on that move.
                   The total pay-off of the multi-stage game is taken to be the expected
                value of the quantity that B pays A before the process terminates. Once
                again assume that the function
                (1)  /(d) = expected pay-off if A and B areinitially d units apart and
                              both employ optimal strategies,
                exists. Then proceeding as before, we obtain the functional equation
                (2)  f(d) = a(d) Max Min[p, 9,f(4) + pogef(d) + £1 92f(4d — 2)
                                     p    4
                                                        +Poaf(d + 2)]) + ¢(@).
                           = a(d) Min Max[...] + g(d),
                                    q     p
                where #,, 2 are the probabilities of A going to the left or the right re-
                spectively on any move,and q4,,qg,are the corresponding probabilities for
                B. In general, optimal #,, po, g, and q, will depend upon d.
                     § 8. General formulation
                   Let us now describe, in some generality, a class of multi-stagegames we
                wish to analyze. At any stage of the game, the states of the two players,
                A andB, are represented by m-dimensional vectors, x and y, which we can
                think of as “‘resources.”’
                   In order to avoid for the moment the conceptual difficulties of infinite
                processes, we shall first considera finite process. At the beginning of each
                stage of an N-stage process, A allocates a certain quantity of his resour-
                ces, a vector u, and B a certain quantity of his resources, a vector v; this
                will be represented symbolically by the notationO<u<%,0<v<y,
                where the inequalities hold component-wise.
                   As a result of this allocation, there are two consequences. A receives a
                payoff of R (u, v; x, y), a scalar function, and Ba payoff of — R (u, v; x, y)
                —azero-sumprocess. In addition to these payoffs, there is an alteration
                in their resources; x is transformed into T (x, y; u, v), and y becomes
                T’ (x,y; u, v). The process now continues in the same fashion for (VN — 1)
                additional stages.
                  The total return to A of the N-stage process is
                (1)       Rn —= Ry (u, Uy, Ug, --., Un —1, U, Uy, --+, UN —1,%, y)
                               = R(u,v) + R(m, v,) + ... + R (un -1, vn -1).
                  There are several ways we can treat this N-stage process. One extreme
                                                                                            289
                                                         MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                     regards the N-stage game as a Single-stage game of complicated type,re-
                     quiring a choice of a set of vectors (u, 4,, ...,4n-1) by A and a set
                     (v, vy, ..-, Un —1) by B, where the choice of ux and vx is dependent upon
                     the choice of 4, 4%, ...,4K-1,U,U1,-..,UK-1. Alternatively, we can
                     employ the functional equation approach. For the case of unbounded
                     processes, or processes involving stochastic interaction, the recurrence
                     techniqueis, in general, the only feasible one. For the caseof finite deter-
                    ministic processes, this technique is usually simpler analytically and
                     computationally.
                        Weshall assume that R (wu,v; x, y) is a continuousfunction of w and v
                     for all finite values of u and v, x and y, and that similarly T (x, y, u, v),
                     T’ (x, y, u, v) are continuous functionsof x, y, 4, and v forall finite values
                    of the vector variables.
                        The general case where only boundedness and measurability of the
                    functions are assumed may be handled using the sameprinciples, at the
                    expense of introducing Sup-Inf operators in place of Max-Min. The par-
                    ticular case where x, y, u, v, I, T’ assume onlyfinite sets of values is also
                    interesting to consider, and has the advantage of avoiding continuity
                    considerations.
                        One advantage to considering the N-stage process as a single-stage
                    process, as described above,is that it permits us to define the multi-stage
                    gameprecisely on the basis of knownresults for the single-stage game and
                    thus the value of the multi-stage game. Once having defined the game,
                    we can prove that recurrence techniques are applicable.
                       The value of the N-stage game described above is given by the expres-
                    sion
                    (2)  uy = Max Min [ffRy dG (u, u, U2, ..., un 1) dG’ (v, v4, v2, ..., UW —1)]
                                    G      @
                              = Min Max[... ],
                                   G      «G
                    where G and G’are distribution functions over regions of quite complicat-
                    ed form defined by the inequalities
                    (3)                O<u<yx,                    O<v<y
                                       O<ay<T,                    O<y<T'
                                       O<un-1<7Ty-1,0<un-1<T'y-1.
                    The quantities T and T’ depend uponx, y, u, and v; T,, T,’ depend upon
                    Xx, Y, U, V, U,, V,, and so on.
                    290
                                                                                        MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                          § 9. The principle of optimality and functional equations
                                     Let us now change our notation, replacing x by P and y by P’, in order
                                to consider more general situations where x and y are not necessarily
                                vectors whose elements are quantities of resources.
                                     Since vy depends only upon the initial states, we may define the se-
                                quence of functions
                                (1)                                        fn (P, P’) = vy, N =1,2,...
                                    Assuming for the momentthat the principle of optimality is valid for
                                multi-stage games, we obtain the following recurrencerelations.®
                                (2)                fi(P, P’) =MaxMin                                   [Jf             R(u, v) dG (u) dG’ (v)]
                                                                                 G         @
                                                                                                     0      Uu     P
                                                                                                     0      v      P’
                                                                                                          IAIA
                                                                                                                 AIA
                                                                          = Min Max[...
                                                                                                                   “
                                                                                                                Loy
                                                                                   G@        Gg
                                   fv+i(P, P’) = Max Min
                                                                                              [
                                                                                                 JJ         (R (u,v) + fy (T, T)] dG (u) dG’(v))
                                                                                                         P
                                                                         G         @ o<
                                                                                                         P’
                                                                                                       INIA
                                                                                           0<
                                                                = Min Max[... ].
                                                                         G         G
                                    That this principle is valid for one-person processes where weare at-
                               tempting to maximize a return, or minimize a “‘cost”’ is clear by contra-
                               diction. Since its validity may not be as obvious for gameprocesses, let
                               us present a brief proof for the sake of completeness.
                                    The recurrence relation in (2) provides a sequence, not necessarily
                               unique, of pairs of distribution functions, {Gy (u, P, P’), G'n (v, P, P’)}
                               which furnish the sequence {fy (P, P’)}. In order to show that the func-
                               tionfy (P, P’) is actually the value of the N-stage game,it is sufficient to
                               show that A can guarantee an expected return offy (P, P’) if he chooses
                              u at the first stage of an N-stage process in accordancewiththe distribu-
                              tion function Gy (u, P, P’), when the states of A and B are described by
                              P and P’, respectively, and similarly that B can guarantee an expected
                              loss of not more than —fy (P, P’).
                                   To demonstrate this, consider the one-person N-stage process in which
                              A employs the fixed strategy represented by the sequenceof distribution
                              functions, {Gz (wu, P, P’)},k = 1, 2,..., N, and B attempts to minimize
                              A’s expected N-stage return. It is sufficient to consider this process,
                              since any other policy employed by B yields a larger expected return
                              for A. Let
                                   3  To simplify the notation, we shall write I (u,v) for R (u,v; P, P’).
                                                                                                                                                                                291
                                                          MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                     (2)   wy (P, P’) = N-stage expected return to A when A employs the
                                               fixed strategy {Gx (u, P, P’)}, B employs a minimizing
                                               strategy, and A and B are in the states P and P’
                                               initially.
                     Then we have the recurrence relations
                                                                              R (u, v) dG (u, P, P’) | dG’(v),
                     (3)       w,(P,P’)=Inf                J         [J
                                                                             P
                                                   GO0O<r< P’ 0
                                                                       lA
                                                                           lA
                          wv+i(P,P’)=Inf                  f
                                                                       J      [R (u,v) + wy (T, T’)]
                                                                         <P
                                                  GOo<tr<P’ 0
                                                                     {Aco
                                                     dGy +1(u, P, P’)] dG’ (v).
                     upon employing the principle of optimality for the one-person process.
                        Considering the origin of the function G,, we see that the minimum in
                     the relation for w, (P, P’) in (8) is attained by the function G’ = Gj’, not
                     uniquely in general. Hence,
                     (4)                                w,(P, P’) = 0, (P, P’).
                     Since w, = v,, the relation for w, yields in the same waythe fact that
                     W». = ve, and thus, inductively, we see that
                     (5)                               wy (P, P’) = on (P, P’).
                        In precisely the same way we show that if B employs the strategy
                     Gy’ (v, P, P’), A cannot obtain more than vy (P, P’). Hence vn (P, P’) is
                     the value of the N-stage game.
                           § 10. More general process
                        Before presenting some precise statements concerning the processes we
                     havediscussed above,let us consider a sequence of more general processes
                     which may be treated by means of the same techniques we shall employ
                     below.
                        Consider, to begin with, an infinite process of the type described in § 8
                     in which weallow the transformations 7 and TJ”, as well as the return R,
                     to depend uponthestage.
                        Wethen consider the functions
                     (1)   f(P, P’; k) = the value to A of the infinite process beginning at the
                                                k—th stage when A and B possess P and P’at this
                                                stage, and both employ optimalstrategies.
                     This sequence, with the usual proviso relating to existence, satisfies the
                     recurrence relation
                     292
                                            MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                (2)  f(P, P’; R)
                      —MaxMin         [Jf   [R(u,v,k) +f(Te, Te’; k + 1)] dG (u) dG’(v)]
                            oe gehen
                      — Min Max[                                                        |.
                           WG
                  Let us now complicate the process to a further degree. We have assum-
                ed, in the above formulation, that the interaction between the players
                was perfectly determined once u and v were chosen. In a variety of pro-
                cesses, a choice of u and v determines a distribution of outcomes, which
                is to say the interaction is stochastic rather than deterministic. Let
                Kx (z, t, t’; uw, v) denote the distribution function, where z is the value of
                R, (u, v), ¢ the value of 7, and ?’ the value of T,’.
                  The functional equation of (2) is replaced by
                (3)  f(P, P’; R)
                       = Max Min       [ff   [J[z+f(t,t; + 1)] dky] dG (u) dG’ (v)]
                            G    GQ O<u<P
                                    O<v< ]}’
                       = Min Max [                                                   |.
                            w    «4
                   Finally, let us consider the case where we are concerned with a non-
                linear function of the total return, R, rather than the total return itself.
                A particularly important situation is that where A wishes to maximize
                the probability of achieving a return of at least Ro, a specified constant.
                Anotherinteresting utility function is e7”,
                  Let us assume that A wishes to maximize the expected valueof  (R),
                where @ is a given function of &. To describe this nonlinear situation, we
                must introduce an additional state variable, a, the total return obtained
                by A from the previous stages of the process. Defining the function
               f(P, P’, a; k) essentially as in (1), we obtain the associated functional
                equation
                (4)  f(P, Pl, a; )
                       —=MaxMin        [ff   [f(t,a+ 2:2 +1) dK] dG (u) dG’(v)]
                            G    G O<u<P
                                    O<v< P’
                       — Min Max [                                                  ].
                           G’    G
                  Noneof these functional equationswill be discussed here in connection
                with the existence and uniqueness of solutions since the basic approach
                is the sameforall cases.
                                                                                           293
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                                                                                                   § 11. A basic lemma
                                                                                                     Let us present a simple but extremely useful inequality which exhibits
                                                                                        the quasi-linearity of the transformation
                                                                                       (1)                                                           L(f) = Max Min T (P, P’;f; G, G’) = Min Max T.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              G                           @                                                                                                                                                     G                             6G
                                                                                       It will play the samerole in the existence and uniqueness proofs of this
                                                                                       chapter that Lemma | of Chapter 4 played in that chapter.
                                                                                      Lemna 1.4 Let
                                                                                      (2) L(f) = Max Min [JJ[R (u,v) + h(P, P’; u, v)f(T, T’)] dG (u) dG’(v)]
                                                                                                                                                                                               GQ                   ues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ves’
                                                                                                                                          = Min Max [                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ].
                                                                                                                                                                 GG
                                                                                                  L, (F) = Max Min [[J[Ry (u,v) + a(R, P’; u, v) F(T, T)] dG (u) dG'(v))
                                                                                                                                                                                              .                    cee
                                                                                                                                          — Min Max [                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ].
                                                                                                                                                                   GG
                                                                                      Then
                                                                                     (3)                                        |      L(f) —L,(F) | < Max Max [| R (uw, v) — R, (u, v)|
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ueS ves’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    + | A(R, P’5 4,2) || f(0, 7) —F (7, T) [).
                                                                                     ProoF: Let us write
                                                                                    (2) L(f) = Max Min T (P, 2’;f; G, G’) = Min Max (P, P’:f, G, G’)
                                                                                                                                                                       G                                                                                                                                                                             GG
                                                                                                 L, (fF) = Max Min T,(P, P’; F;G,G'’) = Min Max T, (P, P’; F;G,G’).
                                                                                                                                                                      G                        @                                                                                                                                                        GG
                                                                                                 Let (G,, G,’) be a pair of functions yielding the value L(f), and let
                                                                                    (G., G,’) be a pair of functions yielding the value L, (F). Then, by virtue
                                                                                    of the saddle-point property, we have the following chain of equalities
                                                                                    and inequalities:
                                                                                   (5)                         L(f)=T(P, P'sf;G,, Gy’) > T (P, P’;f; Ge, Gy’)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <T(P, P';f; Gy, G2’)
                                                                                                               L, (F) = T, (P, P’; F;G,, G,') > T, (P, P’; F; G,, Gy’)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <T,(P, P': F; Gy, Gy’).
                                                                                               4 It is assumed that max-min = min-max for each transformation. A similar
                                                                                  result holds for the one-sided max-min operator; see § 18.
                                                                                   294
                                                          MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                        Combining these inequalities we have
                     (6)     L(f)—L,(f) >T (P, P'sf; Ge, Gy’) — T, (P, P’; F; Gs, G,’)
                                        <T(P, P’;f; G,, G,’) — T, (P, P’; F; G,, G,’).
                        The inequalities in (6) yield
                     (7)   L(f) ~Li(F) = SSR (w, 2) — Ry (u,v) + A(P, P's a, v) (F(T, 7”)
                                                    “ues
                                                    ves’
                                                   —F(I, T’)] ] dG, (u) dG,’(v)
                                                >ff[R (u,v) —R, (u,v) + A (P, P's u,v) (f(T, T’)
                                                   ues
                                                   veS’
                                                  —F(T, T’)] ] dG, (u) dG, (v).
                        Using as in Chapter 4 the fact that a<ic< bd implies |c | < Max
                     (| a |, ||), we obtain from (7) the further inequality
                     (8)  |L(f)—Li(F) |< Max {JJ | R (uw, v) — Ry (u, v)|
                                      + [ACP BS u,v) | [f(L, 1) —# (LF, 1) |) dG, (u) dGy’ (r)],
                          JST | R (u,v) —Ry (4, v) | + | A(P, Pu, ») | (A(T, T)
                           ue
                          veS’
                                                 —F(T, T’) | ] dG, (u) dG,’ (v)),
                     from which (3) follows immediately.
                        It is easy to make the modifications required to obtain the analogous
                     result for the case where Max Minis replaced by Sup Inf.
                           § 12. Existence and uniqueness
                        Before stating ourresults, let us introduce some notation. Let P and P’
                     represent n- and n’-dimensional vectors defined over regions D and D’,
                    respectively, each containing the origin in its respective space. For all
                     values of u,v, P and P’, the transformed vectors JT (P, P’; u, v),
                     IT’  (P, P’; u,v), are required to he within these same domains, where u
                     and v are k- and k’-dimensional choice vectors, respectively, constrained
                     to domains S and S’, which may or may not depend upon P and P’.
                     Since we shall be dealing with shrinking transformations in the theorem
                     below,there is no loss of generality in taking D and D’to befinite.
                        In each space,let us introduce the norm,| | P | |, equal to the sum of
                     the absolute values of the components of P,
                                                                                                                       295
                                  
                                                                                       MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                               (1)                                                      HPL =21Pel,
                                                                                        ||P |=2PEI.
                               Actually, these norms need not beidentical, and, in somesituations,it
                               might be useful to consider norms moldedto the structure of the func-
                               tional equation, rather than standard normsof the above type.
                                    The functional equation weshall consider in some detailis
                               (2)                               f(P, P!)=MaxMin [ff [R(w,)
                                                                                                        G         ueS        ves’
                                                                                     + h(P, P'; u,v) f (L, T')] 4G (u) a6’ (v)]
                                                                                     = Min Max [                               |;
                                                                                               G’
                                                                                                         G
                               where T = T (P, P’; u,v), T’ = T' (P, P’; u,v).
                                    To simplify our notation, let us represent the operator appearing
                               within the outer brackets in equation (2) by T (P, P’; f; G, G’). The
                               equation in (2) then assumes the form
                               (3)                         f(P, P’) = Max Min T (P, P’;f:G, G’)
                                                                                         G        G
                                                                               = Min Max T (P, P’;f;G,G’).
                                                                                        G’        G
                                   There is a question as to whetherthis should be referred to as one equa-
                              tion or as a pair of equations. Weshall refer to (3) as ‘‘an equation.”’
                                   The result we shall demonstrate is
                              THEOREM 1. Consider the equation in (2) under thefollowing assumptions:
                              (4)        (a)     The functions R (u, v),h(P, P’; u,v), T (P, P’; u,v) and T’ (P,
                                                 P'; u,v) are continuous functions of P and P’, u and v, in any
                                                 bounded domain of the variables.
                                        (b) The choice domains, S (P, P’), S' (P, P’), vary continuously with
                                                 P and P’.
                                        (c)      T and T’ are shrinking transformations, i.e.,
                                                Max (||P P+ IP )sA(II PI] +1 Pl),
                                                 ves’
                                                where k 1s a fixed constant less than 1.
                              296
                                                   MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                        (d) Let X w(k" c) < cofor allc > 0, where
                                 n=1
                             wc) =              Max           (Max      |R(u,v)|).
                                         IPI +IIPI]se           wes
                        (e)     Max |lA(u,v, P,P’) |[<1.
                              u,v, P, P’
                     If the above conditions are satisfied, we can assert that there is a unique
                  solution of the equation in (2) within the class offunctions f (P, P’) which
                  ave continuous for all finite P and P’ and vanish when P and P’ are both
                  null vectors.
                     This solution may be found by the method of successive approximations,
                  (5)              fo (P, P’) = Max Min [ff R (u, v) dG (u) dG’ (v)]
                                                     G     GQ  ueS
                                                = Min Max[                                     |,
                                                     G     «G
                                   fa+1(P, P’) = Max Min (P, P’;fn: G,G’),
                                                         ae
                                                              G
                                                   = Min Max T (P, P’;fn; G,G'\,n >0.
                                                         GG
                  The solution ts obtained as the limit f(P, P’) = lm fn (P, P’), in any
                                                                                 n—- co
                  bounded region of (P, P’\ space.
                     Weshall further demonstrate
                  THEOREM 2. Under the hypothesis of Theorem 1, a set offunctions (G (u),
                  G' (v)) furnished by the functional equation constitute a set of optimal
                  strategiesfor A and B, respectively, in the multi-stage game described above.
                        § 13. Proof of results
                     Let us now proceed to the proofs of these results. Let
                  (1)            fo (P, P’) = Max Min [JJ R (u, v) dG (u) dG’ (v)],
                                                   oo wes
                                             == Min Max [                                    ],
                                                  G     @«G
                  and
                  (2)   fn+1i(P, P’) = Max Min T (P, P’;fn; G, G’) = Min Max T,
                                              G    Gg                                a     «Gg
                  where T is defined as in (4.2) and (4.4).
                                                                                                          297
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                                                                                    By virtue of our assumptions concerning the coefficient functions and
                                                                                      the domains S and S’, we can assert the existence of the saddlepoint in
                                                                                      (1), and the continuity of f. (P, P’). Inductively, then, all the f, (P, P’)
                                                                                      exist and are continuousfor all finite P and P’.
                                                                                                    Let us now show that the sequence {fn} converges uniformly in any
                                                                                      finite portion of the (P, P’)-regions. Using Lemma 1 we obtain the in-
                                                                                     equality
                                                                                      (3)                          |   fn+a(P, P’) —fn (P, P’)|
                                                                                                                  <MaxMax (Jf |fu (T, 7") —fa 2(T, 7")| dG (u) dG" (0)],
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n = 2,3,....
                                                                                     Define the new sequence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P’)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            —fn(P,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P’)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +1(P,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Max
                                                                                                                                                                     =
                                                                                                                 un+i(c)
                                                                                     (4)
                                                                                                                                                                                           IPI) +1 Pll se
                                                                                    Then (3) yields, using the assumption of (4a) of § 3,
                                                                                     (5)                                                                                                               Un +1(C) << Un (kc), n = 2, 3, ...,
                                                                                    Also, we have
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,      << Max Max JJ | R (wu, v) | dG (u) dG’(v) ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                    (6)                               |   fe (P,P) —fi(P, P’)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G                          @
                                                                                   whence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 wc).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (c)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Uy
                                                                                     (7)
                                                                                                 Using our assumption that 2w (k"c) < oo, we see that the series
                                                                                   »|fuo+i(P, P’) —fn(P, P’)] converges uniformly in any finite region.
                                                                                    Hencefn (P, P’) converges uniformly to a function f(P, P’) whichsatis-
                                                                                    fies the original functional equation.
                                                                                                 This completes the proof of existence. Let us now turn to a proof of
                                                                                    uniqueness. Let F (P, P’) be another solution which is continuous at
                                                                                    P = 0, P’ = 0, and bounded in any finite region. Wesee that F (P, P’)
                                                                                   is then actually continuousforall finite P and P’, although this fact is
                                                                                   not necessary for our proof. It does simplify it a bit since we can replace
                                                                                   Sup-Inf by Max-Min.
                                                                                                We then have the two equations
                                                                                   (8)                                                                             F(P, P’) = Max Min (P, P’; F;G, G’) = Min Max T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G                        @                                                                                                                                                           GG
                                                                                                                                                                                     f(P, P’) = Max Min T (P, P’; f; G, G’) =Min Max T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GG                          @                                                                                                                                                 Ge                         6G
                                                                                  298
                                       MULTI-STAGE GAMES
              Applying Lemma1, wesee that
              (9)   |F(P, P’)—f(P, P’) |< Max Max[JJ|F(T,T’)—f(T, T’) | dGdc’
                                                 G ueS
                                             G
                                                    veS’
              Let
              (10)        A (c) =       Max        |F (P, P’) —f(P, P’) |.
                                   IPPIL+ 1 Pll se
              The (9) yields the relation
              (11)                       A (c) <A (he),
              which, upon iteration, yields A (c) < A (k"c),n = 1, 2, .... Since F and
              f are both continuous at P = 0, P’ = 0, and have the common value 0
              there, we see that A (k" c) > 0 as u—> oo. Hence A (c) = Oand F=f.
                This completes the proof of Theorem 1.
                  § 14. Alternate proof of existence
                 In the study of functional equations of this class, the proof of the
              existence is “‘cheap,’’ while the proof of the uniqueness requires varying
              degreesof effort. As far as the functional equations arising from thecal-
              culus of variations are concerned, the opposite is true; there, existence is
              difficult and uniquenessis simple.
                Let us indicate how we mayestablish the existence of a solution of the
              Sup-Inf equation in the case where we assume that R (u, v) > 0 and
              h(P, P’; u,v) > 0. It follows inductively that the sequence {/f, (P, P’)}
              is monotone increasing and bounded. Hence the sequence converges to a
              function f (P, P’).
                To show that this function satisfies the functional equation
              (1)          J(P, P’) = Sup Inf T (P, P’;f; G, G’)
                                       G   @
                                   = Inf Sup T,
                                       @ «
              we proceed as follows. We have
              (2)     F(P, P’) >fn+i(P, P’) = Sup Inf T (P, P’;fa; G,G’'),
                                                 G   @
              and thus
              (3)             Ff (P, P’) > Sup Inf T (P, P’; f; G, G’).
                                          G   @
                Conversely, utilizing the positivity of the operator, we have
              (4)           fn+1(P, P’) < Sup Inf T (P, P’;f; G, G’),
                                                                               299
                                                               MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                       for all m, and, in consequence,
                       (5)                       f(P, P’) < Sup Inf T (P, P’;f; G, G’).
                          Comparing (3) and (5) we see that we have equality.
                              § 15. Successive approximations in general
                          The sequence of approximations, {fn (P, P’)}, used to construct the
                       functionf(P, P’) was precisely that obtained from thefinite n-stage pro-
                       cesses. This is actually not the best sequence to use if we are interested
                       only in the infinite stage process. As we have pointed out in previous
                      pages, approximation in “policy space’, here “‘strategy space’’, is in
                       many ways a more natural and more important type of approximation.
                          To justify this and other types of approximations we require
                      THEOREM 3. Under the assumptions of Theorem 1, the sequence defined by
                       (1)       fa +1(P, P’) = Max Min T (P, P’;fa:G,G’), n = 0,1,...
                                                            G
                                                     = Min Max T (P, P’;fn; G, G’)
                                                           GV     Gg
                       converges to the solution of (5.3) for any initial function fo (P, P’) which ts
                      continuous in any finite part of the (P, P’)-domain, and equal to zero at
                       P=0,P’=0.
                          The proof is precisely the same as that given above.
                              § 16. Effectiveness of solution
                          Wehaveestablished existence and uniqueness of the functional equa-
                       tion derived above under the assumption that the infinite process posses-
                       sed a value for each player. The question now arises as to whether the
                      functional equation actually yields sufficient information to allow each
                       player to obtain this value. If so, we say that the solutionis effective, and
                       theoretically, the functional equation is equivalent to the game.é
                          The solution will be effective under the hypotheses of Theorem 1,
                       which is to say, continuity.
                          To show effectiveness, under the hypotheses of Theorem 2, we must
                      show that if A uses a distribution function G (uv) = G (u; P, P’) obtained
                      from a pair (G, G’) which yield the min-max, then, regardless of what B
                      may do, A can guarantee himself a return of at leastf(P, P’).
                          5  In many ways, however, this is not true. Once the functional equation has
                      been formulated, and the process discarded, we haverestricted ourselves to a
                      certain direction of approach which may not be optimal for the derivation of all
                      properties of the process. It is well then to keep in mind that the above functional
                       equation is only one of many possible mathematical descriptions of the process.
                      300
                                                                 MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                           Employing this fixed strategy, A’s return will be, at worst, determined
                        by the solution of the functional equation
                        (1)                             F (P, P’) = Min [JJ [R (w, 0)
                                                                             GQ   ouesN
                                                                                  res’
                                               + h(P, P’;T, T’) F(T, T’)) dG (u) dG’ (v)).
                           It is easy to show, using the techniques of the preceding chapters,
                       together with the assumptions we have made, that this equation has a
                       unique continuous solution whichis zero at P = 0, P’ = 0, Furthermore,
                       the solution of this equation may be obtainedasthelimit of the sequence
                       defined by
                       (2)                  F, (P, P’) = Min [JJ R (u, v) dG (u) dG’ (v)} ,
                                                                  wes
                                                    Fn+1(P, P’) = Min ff [R (w, v)
                                                                               GQ   ouesS
                                                                                    ves’
                                               + h(P, P’;u, v) Fn(T, T’)] dG (u) dG’ (v).
                       It is clear, from the derivation of G (u), that F =f,. Hence, inductively,
                       Fr+1=fn+1, as defined by (14.1). Thus
                       (3)                     F (P, P’) = lim F, = limfn = f(P, P’).
                                                                  n-—-> ©co       n-> Cc
                          This demonstrates the effectiveness of the solutions.
                          With reference to the remarks made in § 6 of Chapter 4, let us now
                       establish
                       THEOREM 4. Let
                       (1)          A (c) =                 Max              Max |R (u,v) — R’ (u,v) |.
                                                  IPI} +l Pll se wes
                       Then, under the hypotheses of Theorem 1, the solutions of
                       (2)    f(P, P’) = Max Min ff [R (uw, 0) + h(P, P's u,v)f(T, T’)] dGdG’
                                                          GQ   ueS
                                                    G
                                                               ves’
                                            = Min Max[...],
                                                   G
                             F(P, P’) = Max Min JJ [R’ (uw, v) + A(P, P’; u, v) F(T, T’) | dGdG'
                                                    ooo
                                            = Min Max[...]
                                                    GG
                                                                                                                                    301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                                                                                                               satisfy the inequality
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Co
                                                                                                                               (3)                                                                                                                                                         [f(P, P') —F (P,P) |< E Alkne),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n=0
                                                                                                                                ProoF. Applying the Lemmaof § 3, we see that
                                                                                                                                (4)                                                                                   |     f(P, P’) — F (P, P’) | < Max Max Jf[ | R—R’ |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G                                         G euewN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ves’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   + | f(T, T’) —F (T, T’) | | dGdc’.
                                                                                                                               Iteration of this inequality yields the desired result.
                                                                                                                                                                       § 17. Further results
                                                                                                                                                   The results obtained in the previous sections depended upon thefact
                                                                                                                               that the total resources of the system were diminished as a consequence
                                                                                                                              of the play at any particular stage of the game. Analytically, we may
                                                                                                                               express this by the statement that the transformation (P, P’) > (T, T"')
                                                                                                                               is a shrinking transformation.
                                                                                                                                                   Let us now introduce a shrinking transformation in another way by
                                                                                                                               assuming that
                                                                                                                              (1)                                                                                                                                                                                                          |h(P, P’, u,v) |<k <1,
                                                                                                                              for all admissible P, P’, u, and v. Provided that we assume that P and
                                                                                                                              P’ now be within bounded domains, with T and T”’ transformations of
                                                                                                                              these domains into themselvesfor all w and v, we obtain ready analogues
                                                                                                                              of the preceding theorems under the assumption of (1). We shall leave
                                                                                                                              the formulation and proofs of the results as exercises for the reader.
                                                                                                                                                                      § 18. One-sided min-max
                                                                                                                                                   Let us now consider the equation
                                                                                                                              (1)                                                               f(P, P’) = Min Max [R (uw, v) + A(P, P’3 u,v) f(T, T)),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ves’ ues
                                                                                                                             which arises from the allocation process described above if the second
                                                                                                                              player is required to announcehis choice of v to the first player before
                                                                                                                             each play.
                                                                                                                                                  We can obtain an analogue of the basic lemmaof § 10 in the following
                                                                                                                             way. For any function FR (uw, v) permitting the operations we have
                                                                                                                             (2)                                                                                                                                     Min Max R (u,v) = Min                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Max R (u,v),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      veS’ ues                                                                                                                                                                          veS’ ul(vyes
                                                                                                                             where wu (v) is now a function which maximizes R (u, v) for fixed v. Let
                                                                                                                                U (v) be this function.
                                                                                                                           302
                                      MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                Let V be a value of v which minimizes R (U (v), v). Then we have the
              inequalities
              (3)                 R(U(V),V) <R(U(2), 2),
                                  R(U(V),V) > R(u(V), V),
              for any other admissible values of u and v. This saddlepoint property
              yields the analogue of Lemma 1. Having obtained this lemma, the
              proofs of existence and uniquenessproceed in a straightforward fashion.
                  § 19. Existence and uniqueness for games of survival
                Weshall prove the followingresult:
              THEOREM 5. Consider the equation
              (1)      f(x) = Min Max [fi gif(x —1) + figf(x + 4) +
                                qg  Pp
                               bogf(x +c) + pedef(x — 4)),
                           = Max Min [Aigf(x —1) + pigf(x + 4) +
                               p    q
                                 Pogf(x +c) + pegaf(x — )],
             for x = 1, 2,3, ... d—1,associated with the game matrix
                                            —]      a
             where a, b, and c are positive integers, a > 1, andf (x) satisfies the boundary
             conditions:
              (3)              f(x) =0,*%*<0,f(x) =1x>d.
                There is a uniquefunctionf (x) satisfying the inequalities 0 < f(x) <1,
              which satisfies (1) and (3).
              ProoF. To simplify the notation, let us set V (f(x)) as the value of the
              game whose matrix 1s
                                      fle—1) fle +a)
              4                      ane)
              The functional equation in (1) has the form
             (5)           f(x) = V(f(x)),     x=1,2,...d—1
                           f(x) =0,            %<0
                           f(x) =1,            x >a.
                                                                             303
                                 MULTI-STAGE GAMES
              Let us define the sequence {fn (x)} as follows.
            (6)          fo(x) =1,x>d,
                              =O0,*<d—l1,
                       Fn +1(%) = V(fn (*)), n = 0,1, 2,...,% = 1,2,...d—1,
                       fn +1 (%) =I,*>d,
                              =O0,x*x< 0.
              It is clear that /f, (x) > fo (x) for all x, and hence inductively that
            fn+1(x) >fn (x). It follows from the fact that 0<fn (x) <1 for all x
            and n, that fn (~) converges as ” — oo for all x to a function f(x). That
            }(x) satisfies (5) is easily seen. This completes the proof of existence.
              Sincefo (x) 1s a monotone increasingfunction of x,each function fn (x)
            is monotone increasing, and hence f(x) 1s monotone increasing. Let us
            now demonstrate the importantresult that it is actually strictly monotone.
            Upon this fact our proof of uniqueness depends.
              We have
            7)                 ray =V(ey 1).
            Iff(a) andf (c) are positive, we havef(1) > 0.
              To establish the fact that f(a) andf(c) are positive, let us assume, on
            the contrary, that f(x) = 0, forx =0,1,2,...,k <d, but f(k+ 1)
            = 0. Then
                      _ypl(flR—lfle+a)\
                                           _
                                                        f(a)
                                                    0
                                                           O
            ")
                  ="
                         Fey
                                 pena)”
                                              (race
            Since f(kR + a) >f(k +1) >0,f(k +c) > f(k +1) > 0, it follows
            that f(k) > 0, which is a contradiction unless k = 0. Thusf(1) > 0.
              Wehave
                               —.f    fM.    flat2
            °)             far=Vv(,20, ier).
            Sincef(1) > 0, f(a + 2) > f(a + 1), f(ec + 2) Sf (c),f(2 — b) > O,
            we must have f(2) >//f (1), unless f (2— 56) = O andthe solution is
            be = d. = 1. This is clearly impossible since it yields f (2) = 0 <f(1)
            and we know that f(2) >/f(1).
              Wethus prove, inductively, that
            (10)       0=f(0) <f(1) <f(2)<...<f(@) =1,
            with strict inequality at every step.
            304
                                       MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                The uniqueness now follows readily. Let us set
              (11)        T (6,¢.f) =pials(*x—)) + pigef(x + a)
                                +pos(x+c) + p292f(x—6).
              Letfand g be solutionsof
              {12)       f(«) = Min MaxT (A, gq,f) = Max Min (4,q,f)
                                  q   p                p    4
                         g (x) = Min MaxT (4,q, g) = Max Min (4,g, g),
                                  q   »p                Pp @
              for 0 <x <d,and
              (13)                   f(x) = g(x) =0,x<0
                                          =lx«>d,
              with the further assumption that g (x) is cet for0O <%* <d.
                Under the assumption thatf(x)  g (x), set
              (14)                  | Meeree|
              and let y be the largest integer in (0, @] for which the maximum, assumed
              non-zero, is attained.          -     -
                If we let #: = pf: (y), gi = Gi (vy), Pi = Pi (VY), Gi = Gi (vy) besetsof values
              for which the Min Max = Max Min is assumed, we have
              (15)                      fy) =T(b4aS)
                                       gly) =T(p,49,8),
              and, as in Lemma I,
              (16)        A= fly         y) |< Max[|T (4,9,f—g) |].
              Since, for all # and g,           i
              (17)                     IT (h9,f—s)|<4,
              wesee that (16) is an equality, which means that
              (18)                    T(p,9f)=TbaS),
                                      To¢f)=T(paf).
                Consider the relation
              (19 f(y) —gly)=Aafy—)—giy—1
                               + binlfly +e) —giy +e
                                                  g       )
                               +Prlf(y ++ a)—gly+a)]
                               + po dalf(y — 6) —g (ly —9)].
              Since » #: 9; = 1,if any of the brackets in (19) have absolute value less
                    a7
                                                                               305
                                            MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                than A, the corresponding coefficient #:; g; must be zero. By assumption,
                y was the largest value for which |f(y) — g (vy) | = 4. Hence #29; =
                0, py Ve = 0.  _              _       _
                  Since #, + ~, = 1, both #, and f, cannot be zero, which means g, =
                O or g, = 0. Turning to the game matrix
                                            fiy—a) fly+a)
                (20)                       es fon)
                we see that the strict monotonicity of f(x) as a function of x makesit
                impossible for g, = 0 or g, = 0 to be optimal play at x = y. This yields
                a contradiction to 4 > 0 and completes the proof of uniqueness.
                  Wesee then that the proof of uniqueness of a strictly increasing solu-
                tion is relatively easy, with the whole difficulty of the complete unique-
                ness proof centering about the proof of strict monotonicity.
                  The method we have employed is quite general and applies to large
                classes of functional equations. It fails, however, to treat the general case
                where we assume only that the elements ai; of the game matrix A are real
                quantities.
                     § 20. An approximation
                  Let us now return to the general equation
                (1)                f(x) = Max Min &' pi qjf(x + aii),
                                              Pp   Q  1%)
                                         = Min Max » p; 9;f(x + aij) ,
                                              q    p  4)
                and assume that x is large compared to aj.
                  The reasoning we shall employ below, while quite formal, possesses
                many features of interest. Assume that we can write
                (2)                   F(x + ais) BF(x) + aajf’ (x).
                Then (1) takes the form
                (3)           f(x) 2 Max Min “ Di Qi (f(x) + aajf’ (x)]
                                    2
                                       Max
                                            Min
                                                 f(x)
                                                       +f’
                                                             (x)
                                                                 2
                                                                    pi
                                                                       gs
                                                                         ais),
                                          p
                                               q
                                                                 a
                which
                       leads
                             to
                (4)
                                      0
                                           Max
                                                Min[/’
                                                         (x)
                                                            &
                                                               pi
                                                                  gy
                                                                     aij]
                                             p
                                                  q
                                                            2,9
                                        2
                                           Min
                                                Max
                                                     [f’
                                                        (x)
                                                            2
                                                                pig;
                                                                     aij].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               [
                                                             a,9
                                             qg   Pp
                  Assume now that f’ (x) > 0. Then we obtain the approximate equa-
                tions for the unknowndistributions # and 4g,
                306
                                                                                                                                                     MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                                     (5)                                                                                     O = Max Min » aij Di "Vj
                                                                                                                                                                       poo             4g         ij
                                                                                                                                                     = Min Max » aij pi q;,
                                                                                                                                                                     q               pp           i,j
                                                     an equation whichis independentoff(x) !
                                                             The meaning of this equation is that for large x, with a large numberof
                                                     plays remaining before the end of the game, the play is approximately
                                                     the same as that employed in the single-stage game where both players
                                                     wish merely to maximize the expected return from oneplay.
                                                             In taking ai; small compared to x we are essentially passing over to a
                                                    continuous version of the process. As we notedin § 18 of Chapter 8 in the
                                                    discussion of the nonlinear utility function, the optimal policy was inde-
                                                    pendent of the form of the criterion function. Here is another manifesta-
                                                    tion of this general principle, and we shall encounter a further example in
                                                    § 22 devoted to a similar approximation for non-zero-sum games.
                                                                     § 21. Non-zero-sum games—gamesof survival
                                                             Let us now turn to a discussion of the more general situation where
                                                    bi; F- — ai. Here there is no generally acceptable theory for the deter-
                                                    mination of optimal play in a single-stage process. Consequently, we shall
                                                    turn immediately to the discussion of a multi-stage process. Let us assume
                                                    once more that the players are both striving to ruin the other, and that
                                                    the game continues until this occurs. They are now in direct opposition
                                                    and we can use a Min-Max formulation.
                                                            Since the gameis non-zero-sum, the state of the process depends upon
                                                    the fortunes of both A and B, x and y,respectively. Let us define
                                                    (1)              f(x, y) = probability that A ruins B when A has x,B has y, and both
                                                                                                           employ optimalpolicies.
                                                    Thenf(x, y), provided that it exists, satisfies the functional equation
                                                    (2)                                               f(x, ¥) = Max Min 2pi gyf(% + aaj, y + by)
                                                                                                                                                    p               q           1)
                                                                                                                             =
                                                                                                                                       Min
                                                                                                                                                        Max
                                                                                                                                                                           »
                                                                                                                                                                                      pi
                                                                                                                                                                                               9;
                                                                                                                                                                                                      f(x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                aij,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               bi)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                                                                q             p           1%)
                                                    with the boundary conditions
                                                    (3)                                                                    f(y) =1x20y <0
                                                                                                                                                       =0,*<0,y >0
                                                                                                                                                       = 1/2, x = y = 0(by convention).
                                                             It is easy to establish the following result, using the methods we have
                                                    employed above.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                307
                                             MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                THEOREM 6. Ifaij + biz < 0for all 1,7, there 1s a unique bounded solution
                to (2), (3).
                     § 22. An approximate solution
                   Let us assume that we are dealing with a process where ai; and bi; are
                always negative. Then assuming that x and y are large compared to ay
                and bi;, and that we may write
                (1)           F(x + ai, ¥ + bij) BH(x,y) + aigfx + Dajfy,
                we obtain the approximate equation
                (2)       f(x, y) @ Max Min 2pi qi [f(%, y) + aajfe + bify]
                                        Pp   Qq 2%)
                                   2
                                      Min
                                           Max
                                                2
                                                   pi
                                                      qs[f
                                                            (x,y)
                                                                  +
                                                                     aus
                                                                        fe
                                                                           +
                                                                               diy
                                                                                 fy).
                                                ts)
                                        qg   Dp
                From this we obtain the approximate equations
                (3)             O = Max Min[fe 2° aij pi gy + fy & dig pi Qi]
                                       p    4       i, j              i,j
                                  = Min Max[fx 2' aij piqg + fy & bij Pi qi).
                                       q    p      7                 a9
                Using the same reasoning employedin § 4 of Chapter 9, we see that these
                yield
                (4)           —fxlfy = Max Min[ 2’ bi pi qs] 2 aaj pi Qi]
                                            Pp   q   t,)           v,)
                                       = Min Max[ 2bis pi qi] 2 aij pi Qi) .
                                            q   op   if            i,j
                This is a very reasonable criterion. Observe that it makes no difference
                whether wesolve forfr=fy orfy/fx, since maximizingf,/fy 1s equivalent
                to minimizingfy/fx.
                   In the next section we shall demonstrate that Max Min in (4) actually
                equals Min Max.
                     § 23. Proof of the extended min-max theorem
                   In this section we wish to prove
                THEOREM 7. If 2 bij fig; =a > Ofor all distribution vectors p and q,
                                 a9
                then
                                          aay Pi 4                  aais Pi Gs
                                                                           
                                                                     
                (1)             Max Min ~+—---_- = Min Max ~
                                   po  q¢ wbyfigi           ¢    pv Ndi pigs
                                          v,)                       a9
                308
                                              MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                 ProoF. Thereis no loss of generality in further assuming that bi; < m <
                 1 for allz,7 so that 2 bi; iq; < m for all relevant p and gq. Consider the
                                       1,7
                 system of recurrencerelations
                 (2)         Uo = Max Min 2 ai; pi gq; = Min Max » ai; pi q;.
                                     p     q  i)               q    p   i,j
                          Un +1 = Max Min [ > aij Pigg + [1 — » bij Pi qj| Un|
                                     p     q   tJ                    inj
                                = Min Max[ 2 ai pig; + [1 —2 bij fi gy) un] .
                                     q     p    ts)                  ts)
                   It is easy to show, using the methods discussed above, that the se-
                 quence {un} converges to a value uw, satisfying the equation
                 (3)          u = Max Min [ “ ai; Pi qj + [1 — > bi; pi qj| “|
                                     p    q    “9                   47
                                = Min Max[ » ai Pigg + (1 —2D bij pi qj] uj.
                                     q    p    7)                    1)
                The condition 0 < 1 — J» bi; pi gq; < 1 —d yields geometric convergence
                               fore)       a,j
                of the series 2’ (un +1— Un).
                              n= 0
                   Since u satisfies (3), it is easy to see that it is given by the expression
                (4)                u = Max Min » ai; pi q;/ X bij Bi 9;
                                          p     q i)             ]
                                     = Min Max » aij pig;/ XY bis bi gy,
                                          q    p  tj           a,
                                                                 j
                which establishes the theorem.
                     § 24, A rationale for non-zero sum games
                   The importance of the above result, combined with the approximation
                procedure discussed in § 14, is that we now havea possible rationale for
                the play of non-zero sum games, namely one based uponthecriterion
                function
                                                        my  4   i
                (1)                         R (p,q) =      =e
                                                     — LS by pig,
                   Whetherornot to accept this is a matter of individual taste. It must be
                realized that this question must always arise in two-person processes,
                whereit is not a priori evident that both individuals are employing the
                same criterion function, or, what is worse, they may not have commen-
                surable utility scales.
                                                                                             309
                                                           MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                 Exercises and research problems for Chapter X
                     1.  Consider the following game. Two players, I and II, match coins ac-
                     cording to the followingrules:
                         a.  I and II both lose one, if a head-head combination occurs,
                        b. I gains one, II loses one if a tail-tail combination occurs,
                         c.  I loses one, II gains one if head-tail, tail-head occur.
                     The first player starts with a quantity m and the second player with a
                     quantity ”. Each plays so as to ruin the other. Let p (m, n; x, y) be the
                     probability that I will be ruined before or together with II if I shows
                     heads with probability x and II shows heads with probability y.
                     Define
                        g, = xy = Probability that I and IT both display heads
                        dg. = x(1— y) + y(1 — x) = Probability that a head-tail combination
                                appears
                        g3 = (1 — x) (1 — y) = Probability that both I and II displaytails.
                     Obtain the recurrence relation
                                  p(m,n) = qi. p(m—I1,n—1)+ Qh (m—1,n + 1)
                                                          +qsp(m+1,n+4+ 1),
                     for m, n > 1, with the boundary conditions
                                             p(m, 0) =0,m>1,p(0,n) = 1,>0
                                                                                 (R. Bellman and D. Blackwell)
                     2.  Show that for » > 2 we obtain the finite set of equations
                                b (1, 2) = (41 + G2) + 93 PB (2, n — 1)
                                (2,n—1) = qb (1,—2) +ged(ln) +436 (3,2 —2)
                                p(n—1, 2) = gp (m—2, 1) +gan—2, 3) +b (m1)
                                p(n, 1) = G2 (n — 1, 2)
                     3. Show that
                                                          6 (2,1) = {as + 42) qo
                                                                              —F2I3
                     and hence that Min Max p (m, n, x, y) 4 Max Min # (m, n, x, y) in gene-
                     ral. (It is interesting to note that Min Max ~ .4397, x’ = .43, y’ = .5,
                                                                         x       y
                     Max Min & .43804, x’ = .43, y’ = 1, where x’ = 1— x,y’ = 1—y.
                        y      x
                     310
                                                       MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                    4.  It follows from the fundamental min-max theorem for continuous
                    games that Min Max K(m,n; A, B) = Max“tin K(m,n; A,B), where
                    K(m,n; A, B) =  [pemass yaa coamy
                    and A,B range over the space of monotone functions of uniformly
                    bounded variation equal to 1. Show that the solution for m = 2,” = ]
                    is given by
                       a.  II chooses the value of y’, yo, for which             (2, 1, 0, v’) = # (2, 1, 1, y’),
                           a pure strategy.
                       b. I chooses a mixed strategy, using either all headsor all tails in the
                           combination (a, 1 — a), where a is chosen so that ap (2, 1, 0, y’) +
                           (1 — a) # (2,1, 1, y’) has a maximumat y’ = yo.
                   5. Show that the expected probability of ruin for I is yp & .4302, the
                   unique real root of y’ = (1 — y’)?/(l — y’ + vy’).
                    6.  Prove that as m, nm — oo along anyfixed direction, m/n =, playerII
                    can choose y so that uniformly in x we have
                                                       lim     p(m,n)=1.
                    7. Show that the above considerations lead to the following principle: In
                   playing a game of this type, I should try to make the stakes as high as
                   possible, whereas II should try to make them aslow aspossible.
                    8. Let
                                                                                          N,N
                           Tn (Uy, Ug, «+, UN} Uy, Ug, ---, UN) = Min Max[ 2 aij x1;
                                   N              N                            .     youre
                              + Si uixi + &L vj yj] = Max Min[...], N=1,2,...
                                 7=1            7=1                 x     y
                    Derive a recurrence relation for {fy}.
                    9. Consider the game of survival described by the matrix
                                                                    2—1
                                                       4=(_37):
                   where thetotal fortune of both players is 4 and & describes the fortuneof
                    the first player. Show that f(A), the probability of survival of the first
                    player, satisfies the equations
                                      F(1) =f(3) +F(2)/4(2) + F(3)
                                      Ff (2) = f (3)/(. + f (8) —f (1)
                                                                   )
                                                                   )/(2
                                      f(3) = (L—f(2)FD)                 —F(2) —f(1)                   (Hausner)
                                                                                                                 311
                                                                                                                                                                           MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                                                             10. Hence show that
                                                                                                                      f(1) = 1— 2/2,f(2) = 1/2,f(3) = 72/2,
                                                             and that the corresponding optimal strategies are given by
                                                                                                                       pi = V2—1, pb: = 1/2, p3 = 2— v2
                                                                                                                       g=V2—1,4¢= 1—vV2/2,¢, = W2—1
                                                             11. Consider the game of survival described by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a—l
                                                                                                                                                                             4=(_T                                                       a)
                                                            where a and 6 are positive integers. Let vn (Rk) be the probability that A
                                                            survives when the fortunes of both players total m and A possesses k of
                                                            this. Show that
                                                                                                                       Dn v1 (& + 1) = vn (A) + (1 — dn (B)) On 44 (I)
                                                             12. Show that
                                                                                                                                                                                          vn+i(1 f+ a) Un +1 (1 f+ b)
                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                Un4+1 (1) =
                                                                                                                                                                                     Unsi(l +a) +sil +9)
                                                            and hence that
                                                                                                                                               Un+1 (1) __                                              Vn(a) Un (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                    1+Von(@) Un (6)
                                                             13. Show that
                                                                                                                                                                                     Un (1 + B)                                                                                       Un (1)
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                               a(I) = Yn (1 + a) + 0n(1 +5) un(l a)
                                                                                                                                     bn+il(k + 1) = px (hk) = pa - x 4+1(I1)
                                                             14. Prove Theorem 5 by showing that val (A —BA) is a continuous
                                                            function of 4 which is monotone decreasing as a function of A. Hence
                                                            show that there is exactly one solution of the equation val (A — BA) = 0
                                                            which may be represented in the form given in (23.1). (Karlin).
                                                            15. Consider the equation
                                                                                                                                          u(p)=L(ul(s,g')) +4609),
                                                            and the related equation
                                                                                                                      v (Pp) = Max Min[L (v (6,9, 9')) +4 (6,%9')]
                                                                                                                                                                 q                 4
                                                                                                                                            — Min Max [                                                                                    -                                                                          1.
                                                                                                                                                              q                    q
                                                           312
                                                                                      MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                               Under what conditions may wewrite
                                                                v (p) = Max Min u(p) = Min Max u (p) ?
                                                                                     q       q                           q          qg
                               16. Consider, in particular, the system of equations
                                                            xi = Max Min[ci (g, g') + 2 ais (9, 9’) x3),
                                                                                       ,                            j=1
                                                                            qg       qg
                                                                  = Min Max [ci (g, g') + 2 ais (q, 9’) xj], = 1, 2, ..., 0.
                                                                             ¢
                                                                            q
                                                                                      q                             J=1
                               under appropriate conditions concerning the matrix A (gq, q') =
                               (ai; (9, 9')).                                                                                                                  (L. Shapley)
                               17. Suppose that we are given the information that a coin hasa fixed but
                               unknownprobability # of landing heads and a probability g = 1 — 9 of
                               landingtails, and that                             has a knowna priori distribution function dF ().
                               The coin is to be tossed N times and weareto call heads or tails before
                               each toss with the full knowledge of the results of the previous tosses.
                               What policy maximizes the expected numberof correctcalls?
                               18. Suppose that we can toss the coin as many times as weplease, at a
                               cost of c per toss, and then are required to furnish a value for #, the pro-
                               bability of heads. If p’ is the value decided upon, the cost of deviation
                               from the true value is g (p — ~’), where g is a known function. What
                               policy minimizes the total expected cost ?
                               19, Returning to problem 17, suppose that an opponent has the choice
                               of choosing F (pf) so as to minimize the expected numberofcorrect calls
                               obtained using an optimal policy. Can one characterize the optimal
                              selection of F (f) by the statement that the opponent chooses F (f) in
                               such a way as to minimize the information available after anyfinite set of
                               tosses ? On this hypothesis, determine Min-Max.
                               20. Generalize these results to cases where there are many different
                              possible outcomes at each stage, e.g. a six-sided die.
                               21. Player A has resources in quantity x, and Player B resources in
                              quantity y. A divides x up into z parts, x = 2 xi, x; > 0, and B likewise,
                                                                                                                              i
                              y = 2yi, vi > 0. The payoff to A is
                                                           P (x, y) = x ci Max (Xi — Vi, 0) '
                                                                                 i=1
                              and the negative of this to B.
                                                                                                                                                                                313
                                                          MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                     Write
                        fn (x, ¥) = Max Min [f P (x, v) dG (x4, xg, ..., Xn) dG’ (V1, Vo, «++, Yn)]
                                    = Min Max[            ...                                                         ].
                                         GG
                     Obtain the recurrence relations connectingf, andfn_1.                           (Colonel Blotto)
                     22. Let A be a positive matrix, 1.e. ai; > O for allz, 7. Show that A has a
                     unique characteristic root of largest absolute value, which is positive,
                     and that the associated characteristic vector may be taken to be positive.
                     Denote this root by # (A), the Perron root of A.
                     23. Show that
                                                  pb (A) = Max Min 2 ais xj/x;,
                                                                  x     @  g=l
                                                                             n
                                                           == Min Max » aij xj/x:,
                                                                 x      @  j=l
                     wherethe variation is over the region x; > 0,2’ x; = 1.
                                                                                        i
                     24. Show that
                                                  p (A) = Max Min 2 aj xj/x:,
                                                                 Ri j=l
                                                                             n
                                                          = Min Max » aij x5/x:,
                                                                 Ri j=
                     where R’ is defined by x; > d,                 x; = 1, and d maybe taken to be
                                                       d = Min ai;/Max (2 aij) .
                                                               a, 9        a     j
                     25. Prove that p (A) is the uniquesolution of
                                             A=
                                                    Max
                                                           Min
                                                                 >
                                                                       aig
                                                                            Xj
                                                                                +
                                                                                   A(L
                                                                                         —
                                                                                             xi),
                     or
                         of
                                                      no
                                             A=
                                                    Min
                                                          Max
                                                                 Cs
                                                                       aij
                                                                            Xj
                                                                               +
                                                                                   A(L
                                                                                         —
                                                                                             xi)),
                    where
                              R’
                                  is
                                     as
                                         above.
                                                      |
                                                             oe
                     26. Consider the nonlinear recurrencerelation
                                        Un+1 = Min Max[ 2 aij xj + un (1 — xi)].
                                                      Roi j=1
                    with uw, arbitrary. Prove that p(A) = lim an.
                                                                           n-> 00
                                                                                 (Proc. Amer. Math. Soc., 1956).
                    314
                         MULTI-STAGE GAMES
                 Bibliography and Comments for Chapter X
           § 1. An excellent introduction to the theory of games is J. D. Williams,
         The Compleat Strategyst, McGraw-Hill, 1955. The classic work in the field
         is J. Von Neumann and O. Morgenstern, The Theory ofGames and Economic
         Behavior, Princeton University Press, 1948. An exposition of the application
         of the mathematical theory of games to the study of card gamesis contained
         in R. Bellman and D. Blackwell, ‘‘Red Dog, Blackjack and Poker,”’ Scientific
         American, vol. 184 (1951), pp. 44-47;cf. also, the references given in the
         comment on § 5 of Chapter VIII. There is also a discussion of several poker
         games in ‘‘The Theory of Games and Economic Behavior’’ cited above, and
         quite a few authors since have studied particular games. The interested
         reader may refer to the Studies in Game Theory issued by Princeton Univer-
         sity Press for further references.
           We have completely avoided in this volume any contact with the theory
         of sequential analysis of Wald, and the general theory of statistical decision
         processes and the design of experiments. The interested reader may refer
         to Wald’s book, A. Wald, Statistical Decision Functions, J. Wiley and Sons,
         1950, to the book by D. Blackwell and A. Girshick, Theory of Games and
         Statistical Decisions, J. Wiley and Sons, 1954, and generally to the current
         and back numbers of the Annals of Mathematical Statistics for papers in
         this field. See also H. Robbins, ‘‘Some Aspects of the Sequential Design of
         Experiments,’ Bull. Amer. Math. Soc., vol. 58 (1952), pp. 527-536.
           § 3. A proof the min-max theorem may be found in the Von Neumann-
         Morgenstern book cited above, as well as in the Blackwell-Girshick volume
         where extensions are also discussed.
           Although there are theories of non-zero-sum games and N-person games,
         N > 2, available, none of them have the eleganceor thefinality of the two-
         person zero-sum theory because of the lack of a corresponding min-max
         theorem. A large part of Von Neumann-Morgenstern is devoted to these
         questions, and a fundamental result in the field is contained in J. F. Nash,
         “Equilibrium Points in N-person Games,’’ Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., vol. 36
         (1950), pp. 48-9.
           § 4. For an abstract discussion of continuous games, see S. Karlin, ‘‘The
         Theory of Infinite Games,” Annals of Math., 1951 and for some particular
         results see M. Dresher and S. Karlin, ‘‘Solutions of Convex Games as Fixed
         Points,’’ Contributions to the Theory of Games II, Annals of Mathematics
         Study No. 28, Princeton University Press, 1951.
           § 5. As far as we know,the first treatment of games where both players
         have finite resources, and, in particular, ‘“‘games of survival,”’ is contained in
         R. Bellman and J. P. LaSalle, “On Non-Zero Sum Games and Stochastic
         Processes,’’ RM-212, The RAND Corporation, 1949, R. Bellman and
         D. Blackwell, “On a Particular Non-Zero Sum Game,’’ RM-250, The RAND
         Corporation, 1949.
          The name “games of survival’’ was given in the course of some seminar
         lectures at RAND.
          § 7. The subject of ‘‘pursuit games’’ has been intensively investigated by
         R. Isaacs, who resolved a number of special games, and developed a general
         theory of this class of problems. See R. Isaacs, ‘“Games of Pursuit,’’ P-257,
                                                   315
                         MULTI-STAGE GAMES
         The Rand Corporation, 1955, R. Isaacs, ‘‘The Problem of Aiming and
         Evasion,’’ P-642, The RAND Corporation, 1955, R: Isaacs, ‘Differential
         Games—lI,IT, III, IV,”” RM-1391, 1399, 1411, 1486, The RAND Corporation,
         1955.
          § 8. The results of this and the following sections, 9-17, follow the paper
         of R. Bellman, ‘Functional Equations in the Theory of Dynamic Pro-
         gramming—III, Multi-Stage Games,’’ Rendiconti di Palermo, 1957.
          § 18. The technique utilized here was suggested by W. Fleming. Further
         results on existence and uniqueness were announced by L. Shapley, ‘‘Sto-
         chastic Games,”’ Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., vol. 39 (1953), pp. 1095-1100.
          § 19. The proof presented here is contained in R. Bellman, ‘“‘Introduction
         to the Theory of Dynamic Programming,’ RAND, R—245, 1953, Chapter VI.
         Since the original papers cited above, a good deal of work has been done on
         the subject. The deepest results so far obtained are contained in M. Peisa-
         koff, ‘‘More on Gamesof Survival,’’ RM-884, The RAND Corporation, 1952,
         and J. Milnor and L. Shapley, ‘‘On Gamesof Survival,’’ P-622, The RAND
         Corporation, 1955.
          § 20. The contents of this section and those of 21, 22, and 24 were pre-
         sented in R. Bellman, ‘“‘Decision Making in the Face of Uncertainty-II,
         Naval Research Logistics Quarterly, vol. 1 (1954), pp. 323-332.
          § 21. This proof of the extended min-max theorem is due to L. Shapley
         in the references cited in the comment on § 18. The formulation of the
         theorem and the original proof are due to Von Neumann.
         316
                                              CHAPTER XI
                                Markovian Decision Processes
                    § 1. Introduction
                  In this chapter we shall study some decision processes of a different
               form than those previously encountered, giving rise to a new class of
                functional equations.
                  Weshall consider discrete processes, which lead us to the study of the
                difference equation
                                         NV
               (1)  xi(n + 1) = Max & diz (q) x; (n), x: (0) =C%,t= 1, 2, JN,
                                     qj7=1
                and some continuous processes which generate the equation
                                        N
                (2)      axildt = Max 2 ai; (q) x; (t), x1 (0) = ci,4 = 1,2,...,N,
                                    q  j=1
               in the one-person case, and the equation
                                           N
               (3)   dxifdt = Max Min 2 ai; (p, q) x; (4))], x1 (0) = ci, 4 = 1, 2, ..., N,
                                q    p   j=
                           = Min Max[... ],
                                pq
               in the two-person case.
                  As weshall see, equations of this type have connections withthe clas-
               sical theory of differential and difference equations. We shall, however,
               reserve any detailed exploration of this liaison until the second volume.
                    § 2. Markovian decision processes
                  Let us describe, in this section, a decision process which motivates the
               study of a class of nonlinear difference equations, of which (1.1) is a re-
               presentative. We shall then consider the limiting form, namely (1.2).
                  Consider a physical system S which at any of the times ¢ = 0,4,
               24, ... must be in one of a set of states which we denote by S;, So, ...,
               Sy. Assume that at any time ¢ there is a probability ~; (¢) that the system
               is in the 2state, and that transition probabilities exist governing the
                                                                                        317
                                 MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
              changeover from one state to another. It is important to realize that
              these are very strong assumptions concerning the nature of the system.
                Let
              (1)  aij = the probability that the system will be in state7z at ¢ + A if it
                        is in state 7 at time ¢.
                The relation between the set of probabilities {x; (¢ + A)} and the set
              {xi (¢)} 1s then given bythe relations
              (2)           n(6+4)= Fayf1%,
                                        je
              for ¢=0,4,2A,...,. Setting x: (n 4d) = yi(n), we may write these
              equations in the simpler form
              (3)           yi(n + 1) =Fayy (tt = 1% aN.
                The asymptotic behavior of the state vector(y,, V2, ..-, Vw) aS t-—> oO
              is determined by the algebraic character of the characterisitic roots of
              the matrix A = (aij). A process of this type is called a Markoff process.
              There exists an extensive mathematical theory of these processes.
                Let us now consider Markovian decision processes. Assume that the
              transition probabilities, aij, depend upon a parameter g, which may be a
              vector, and that at each stage of the process q is to be chosen so as to
              maximize the probability that the system is in the state S,. In place of
              the equations in (3) we obtain the nonlinear system
                                                   N
              (4)                yi(m + 1) = Max& ay; (q) ys (n),
                                               qj=l
                                       x
                          yin +1) = »& ai (g*) y; (n), 1 = 2,3, ...,N.
                                      j=l
              where g* = q* (n) in the remaining N — 1] equationsis one of the values
              of g which maximizes y, (” + 1).
                Since the ai are transition probabilities, they are restricted by the
              conditions
              (4)              ay > 0, + ag = 1,7 = 1,2, ..., N,
              for all @.
                To obtain more general equations, consider the situation in which we
              have N different types of items and let x; (¢) represent the quantity of
              the zth item at time ¢. These items have the property that a unit quan-
              tity of the zt" item generates an amount ai of the 7" item over the time
              318
                                                                                                               MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                               interval {t, ¢ + A). Here ai; > 0 represents production, and the reverse
                                               inequality represents consumption. Once again let a;; depend upon a
                                               parameter g and let the purpose of the process be to maximize the
                                               quantity of the first item available at any time. In this case we obtain
                                               the equation in (4) withno restriction on the magnitudeorsign of the ai.
                                                       In the limit as 4 -—» 0, we obtain in place of (4) the nonlinear
                                               differential system
                                                                                                       dx,                                     v
                                               (5)                                                     ywMax 2’ by; (9) xj (), x1 (0) = 1,
                                                                                                                                   q      j=l
                                                                                                              Ax:                     Nv                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                              dt =— 2 bi; (q*) xj (t), x; (0) =%,t= 2, 3, eee, N.
                                                                                                                                  j=1
                                               To obtain this system, weset, in the usual fashion
                                               (6)                                                                                      aij = bi A,
                                                                                                                                        ai = 1— di A,
                                               and then let 4d -> 0. Having obtained the equations by meansof this for-
                                               malism, we now define the continuous process by meansof the equation
                                               in (5). In return for this, we must establish existence and uniqueness of
                                               solutions, which is to say we must show that this method of defining a
                                               process is actually valid.
                                                             § 3. Notation
                                                      Taking accountof the foregoing remarks, weshall begin by considering
                                               the continuousversion first. Introducing vector-matrix notation to sim-
                                              plify our notation,
                                                                                                                    Xy                                                                                                    Cy
                                                                                                                    Xe                                                                                                    Ce
                                              (1)                                         x=                                            »   A (9) = (44 (9), 6 =
                                                                                                                   XN                                                                                                     CN
                                              the system
                                                                              AX:                                     ~                                                                           ,
                                              (2)                             qoMax © aay (gq) 43, %¢ (0) = ct = 1,2, ...,N,
                                                                                                          qj=1
                                              takes the form
                                              (3)                                                               dx/dt = Max A (9) x, x (0) =c.
                                                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           319
                            MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
            where it is understood that the maximum is taken element by element.
            By this we mean that the set of g’s for each row is distinct from thecor-
            responding set for any other row. Thus,
            (4)              ayj (q) = ayj (Qu, Via, +65 Qik) ,
                             Aj (q) = Aj (Jar, Joa. +++) Jok) ,
                             anj
                                (7)
                                   =
                                     4nj
                                        (Gn1,
                                            Qn2,
                                                +>,
                                                   qNk)
                                                       5
            so that there is no interaction between the various maximizations. After
            discussing this case, we shall return to the equations obtained in the
            preceding sections, where interaction occurs.
              It is convenient to employ the notation
            (5)                   I}x|l= 2 |x],
                                  14 ||2Lau |
            These fulfill the usual requirements for norms, and in addition we have
            (10)               HfAx[[< {Alli l+]l.
                § 4. A lemma
              As1s usual in the theory of differential equations,thefirst step in esta~-
            blishing existence and uniquenessof a solution consists of converting the
            differential equation into a suitable integral equation. This enables us to
            take advantage of the smoothing properties of integration.
              Considering the more general equation
            (1)        dx|dt = Max [A (q, t) x + b(q, 4], x (0) =,
                               q
            we obtain the integral equation
            (2)         xe|Max[A(9,5)2+5(g,)] 4
                                o  4
            which may be written
            (3)         x= Max(o+] (gs) ds+ [4 (qs) xds].
            Since qg is a function of ¢, pointwise maximization yields global maximi-
            zation.
              It is easy to demonstrate the following result in much the same way as
            Lemma1 of Chapter 2 wasestablished.
            320
                                                                         MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                               LemMMA. Let
                               (4)                               T, (x) = Max [),(q, #) + [ A (q, Ss) xds],
                                                                 Ts (y)= Max(bs (g.)+ [A(@, 8) yds).
                                                                                       qg                               0
                               then
                               (5)               HTT (@) ~ T() | 1s Max] | 5, (g, t) — be (9, t) | |
                                                                                  t
                                                                         + [i4@9 II lle—yllas
                                   This lemma will be the fulcrum of our existence and uniquenessproof,
                                        § 5. Existence and uniqueness—I
                                   Let us now consider the question of the existence and uniqueness of
                              solutions of the equation
                              (1)                          dx/dt = Max [A (q, t) x + 5 (9, 4)], x (0) =c.
                              There are a number of cases of particular interest, corresponding to
                               different assumptions that can be made concerning the function A (q,f),
                              b (g, t), and the set of admissible functions q (¢). We shall discuss one class
                              of equations and leave the matterthere, since the method used will illus-
                              trate the procedures that may be employed in other cases.
                                   Ourfirst result is
                              THEOREM 1. Assume that q ts an element of a set offunctions S with the
                              property that
                              (2)                                     (AMAL, [lé@AlI<f),
                              wheref(t) 1s integrable over any finite interval O << t< T. Assumefurther
                              that the maximum of A (q, t) x + 0 (q, 4) ts attained for ge S for any fixed
                              tandxvalues.+
                                   Then there ts a unique solution to (1) satisfying the equation almost every-
                              where. This solution may befound as the limit of the successive apbproxima-
                              t101S,
                              (3)                Xo = C,
                                                                                       t
                                           vn st = 6 + Max [ [A (q, 8) xn + 6(q,s)] ds,n=0,1,...
                                                                          qd          0
                                   1  The purpose of this assumption is to handle simultaneously the case where q
                              assumes only a discrete set of values, in which case the maximumis alwaysattained,
                              and the case where qg varies continuously.
                                                                                                                                                                             321
                                                                                                                                                                             MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                                                         ProoF. Let us first show that the x2 are uniformly bounded in the inter-
                                                                        val [0, 7]. Specifically, we shall show that
                                                                        (3)                                                                                                                [an | |< aexp (|f(s) ds),
                                                                        where
                                                                         (4)                                                                                                                       a=|lell+ |s(as.
                                                                         The inequality certainly holds for » = 0. Assume that it is valid for
                                                                         k = 0,1, ...,”. Then we have, from (3),
                                                                         (5)                                                                         [amsal |< lel + |’ Max | |b (g, 9) ||as
                                                                                                                                                                            + [tax || 4 (@, 9) (1) [xm | 1a
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <at|F() |lan| las
                                                                         Replacing | | xn | | by its bound, we have
                                                                         (6)                                                             Jansill<a+ |’f(s)(aexp( |f(ss) ds))] 4
                                                                         and thus obtain the same boundfor| | xn +1 | |.
                                                                                    Let us now establish the convergence of the sequence {xn}. Applying
                                                                        the Lemmaof § 4 to the two relations
                                                                        (7)                                                              nea e+Max[|(4 (gq, 5) xn + b(g, 5)) a5],
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      q                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                                                           tn = 6+ Max[ | [A (g, 8) xn-1 + (9, 8)] ds
                                                                                                                                                                                                         q                           0
                                                                        we obtain the inequality
                                                                        (8)                       |     |xnsa—xn | |< Max ||| A (a3) ||| — awa ls
                                                                                                                                                     <|F() anan-1| dsm = 1,2, _
                                                                        Iterating this relation, starting with the inequality for | | x,— xo| |,
                                                                        we obtain the inequality
                                                                        (9)                                       [ansa—an [SMe + CfFO)dsryn+ ay!
                                                                        322
                                    MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
               which establishes the uniform convergence of the sequence {%n} in the
               interval [0, 7] to a function x (¢). This function is continuous for 0 < ¢
               <T, satisfies the integral equation
                                            t
               (10)           x(t) =e+ | Max [A (q, s) x + b (q, s)] ds,
                                            eo 4
               and hence the differential equation almost everywhere.
                  Finally, let us demonstrate uniqueness. Let y (¢) be another solution
               of the equation, existing in someinterval(0, S]. Then in this intervaly (2)
               satisfies the equation in (10). Applying the lemmaof § 4, we derive the
               inequality
               (1)      |x—y||<Max[||4@s) [[|l*—y| 14s
                                              t
                                         <|'f0) [lx—y |]
                  This inequality has the form
               (12)                       HO<[So)aias,
               wheref(s), u (s) > 0.
               Hence, for an arbitrarily small positive constant a, we have
               (13)                    u(t) <a+ [f6)«(9 ds.
               Dividing through,this yields
                                               t   t
                                       
                                                                 ().
                                                            SS
                                            mone
               (14)
                                       a+ [ f(s) u (s) ds
               Integrating between 0 ands, we have
                                                              elo
                                                         <a
                                                      ds
                                                   (s)
                                                 u
                                          [fo
                                     a+
               (15)
               Combining this with (13), we obtain the inequality
                                                         t
                                                         f(s)ds
               (16)                          u(t)<a ele
               Since a is an arbitrary positive constant, we see that u (¢) = 0.
                                                                                       323
                                                                                                     MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                                  An alternative proof proceeds as follows. It is clear that a constant b
                                           exists such that | | x — y||< bin (0, s]. Hence
                                           (17)                                                                            u<b{sO)ds.
                                           Use this inequality on the right side of (12), obtaining
                                           as)                              w@<b['(F6) [f(sdoi)ds = 072! ([70 is
                                                  Continuing in this way, we have for each n = 1, 2, ..., the inequality
                                                                                                                                                    bn                          ‘ F(           d          n+1
                                             19                                                                     u(t) << —- i s) ds
                                           "                                                                              O<Ggin (10%)
                                           Letting 1 —> oo, we see again that u(t) = 0.
                                                         § 6. Existence and uniqueness—II
                                                  Let us now consider the equation of (2.5). In general, equationsof this
                                           general type need not have unique solutions, due to multiplicity of
                                           maximizing g-values. Consider, for example, the equation
                                           (1)                                  dx,/dt = Max [1 — g? (1 — q)?}] + %s, %1 (0) = 0
                                                                                                                 q
                                                                               Ax,/dt = g* xX,                                                                                            ,   x, (0) = 1
                                           Since g* = Oor 1, we obtain infinitely many sets of solutions, of which the
                                           following are representative
                                           (2)                                                                 X=2t,%, = t+ (e&—1)
                                                                                                              Xe=1, x, =e.
                                                 Wecan, however, obtain uniqueness theoremsif we restrict ourselves
                                           to solutions obtained in the following way. First solve the equations
                                                                                                                                                  N
                                           (3)                                        dx,/dt = b. (q, ¢) +2 2; (q) Xj, X_ (0) = Ce,
                                                                                                                                              7=1
                                                                                       "                                                           N
                                                                                     dxn/dt = bn (q, t) + P aNnj (q) xj, xn (0) = cn,
                                                                                                                                                 7=1
                                          for the quantities x», %;, ..., xv in terms of function x,, regarding g for
                                          the moment as some unknownfunction.
                                          Each xz, k = 2, 3, ..., N, will have the form
                                          (4)                                                   we = uel.) + |on (Qs) m9) ds
                                          324
                                      MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                   Substituting these expressions into the equation
                                                         N
                (5)          dx,/dt = Max [0, (9, t) + © ayj(q) xj], x1 (0) =c,,
                                         q              j= 1
                we obtain an equation of the form
                                                                   t
                (6)      dx,/dt = Max [6 (q, ¢) 4+- ay; (g) x, + | v (g, t, S) x, (s) ds].
                                     q                            O
                This equation we write in the form
                (7)           m=0+Max([big8)ds+ [an(g) mds +
                                         [, (| v (g, t, s) x, (s) ds] dt,]
                Using the methods employedin § 5,it is easy to establish the existenceof
                a unique solution of this equation under the hypotheses of Theorem 1.
                     § 7. Existence and uniqueness—III
                   It is possible, using the same technique of successive approximation
                and inequalities, to establish existence and uniqueness theorems for
                more general systems of differential equations of the form
                (1)                   dx/dt = Maxf(x, q,t), x (0) =c.
                Since these results are more within the provinceof differential equations
                than pertinent to the theory of decision processes, we shall leave it for
                the ambitious reader to frame his own analoguesof the classical existence
                and uniqueness theorems.
                     § 8. The Riccati equation
                   Although we do not wish to penetrate too deeply here into the study of
                this class of nonlinear differential equations, the following result seems
                particularly worthy of notice.
                   The change of variable
                (1)                                 v= u'lu
                converts the general second orderlinear differential equation
                (2)                      u" + p(w +q()u=0,
                into the first order non-linear equation
                (3)                     +e+pvt+q()=0.
                                                                                            325
                                                                                                                                                        MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                                               This equation is called a Riccati equation. It is clear from the foregoing
                                                               that the general solution of (3) is equivalent to the general solution of(2),
                                                               and hence,in general, cannot be obtained explicitly in terms of quadra-
                                                               tures.
                                                                         Let us now showthat(3) can be interpreted to be an equation of the
                                                               general class exhibited above. We begin with the observation that
                                                               (4)                                                                                                     —v? = Min (w? — 2 wv).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                               Hence (3) may be written
                                                               (5)                                                                        v’ = Min [w? — 2 wv — p (t) v—q (8)],
                                                                                                                                                                       w
                                                               where w now varies overall functionsof ¢.
                                                                         Forfixed w, let V (w, t) represent the solution of
                                                               (6)                                                          V’ = w*—_2w0wV —p() V—gqit),
                                                               fixed by the condition V (0) = v (0) = c. This solution has the explicit
                                                               representation
                                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                                    t
                                                                                                                                  -~|          (p(s)+2w)ds                                                     t                                                       —|             (p(8,)+2w) ds,
                                                               (7)                                     V = elo? +{ (w?—g(s))ols (md                                                                                                                                                                     re                            de
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                obtained in the usual way by meansof an integrating factors.
                                                                          Let us now showthat
                                                               (8)                                                                                                                      v = Min V (w,2).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ww
                                                               For an arbitrary function w = w (¢), we have
                                                               (9)                                                                                   uv < w*— 2wv—p(t) v—qh),
                                                               which shows that v < V (w, t). Hence v < Min V(w,t). On the other
                                                               hand v = V (w*, t) for the minimizing value w*, which is actually (2).
                                                                Hence the equality in (8) holds.
                                                                          Wethus have an explicit representation for the solution of the Riccati
                                                                equation in terms of quadratures and a minimization.
                                                                                    § 9. Approximation in policy space
                                                                          As we havediscussed in the preceding chapters, there are two types of
                                                                successive approximations in the theory of dynamic programming, one
                                                                based upon approximation to the functions which satisfy the functional
                                                                equation, and the other based upon approximation to the policies which
                                                                326
                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                                                                    yield these solutions. We have applied the traditional method above in
                                                                                    § 3. Let us now discuss the second method.
                                                                                                  Consider the scalar equation
                                                                                    (1)                                                                                           du/dt = Max{b(g,t) + a(qg, t) uj], u(0) =c,
                                                                                    whereweimposetherestrictions| a (q, ¢) |, |b(¢, 4) |<f(d), [°s (t) dt <0.
                                                                                    Webegin by guessing an initial policy function qo = go (¢), and determi-
                                                                                    ning “4, by means of the equation
                                                                                    (2)                                                                                      Auo/at = b (do, t) + a (Go, t) Uo, Uo (O) = c.
                                                                                                  Next determine g, by the condition that it maximize the function
                                                                                    b (q, t) + a(q, t) uo, and compute uw,as the solution of
                                                                                    (3)                                                                                      du,/dt = b (gy, t) + a (qi, £) uy, uy, (0) =c.
                                                                                                   Continuing is this way we determine a sequenceof functions {un} and a
                                                                                    sequenceof policies {gn}. It remains to show that this sequence {un} ac-
                                                                                    tually converges.
                                                                                                  We have
                                                                                    (4)                                                                   du,[dt = b (q,, t) + a (qu, t) uy, uy (0) =,
                                                                                                                                                         Au[dt = b (go, t) + a (go,t) Uo
                                                                                                                                                                                                <0(qi, t) + 4 (1, £) Uo, Uo (0) = c,
                                                                                    referring to the definition of q,.
                                                                                                 The solution of
                                                                                    (5)                                                                                                                 dvjdt = g(t)u + A(t), v (0) =c,
                                                                                    has the form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8                                                t                                                                 1)             Uy
                                                                                    (6)                                                                                                        v=cei4 h(s)bsura ds.
                                                                                   which we may write as L (A), an operator on the function h.
                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                 Since olgn(orts > 0, it follows that
                                                                                    (7)                                                                                                                                                                      L (hy) > (h,)
                                                                                    if h, (¢) > h, (t) for t > 0. Hence
                                                                                    (8)                                                                                                                                              Up<u,forOx<ti<T
                                                                                    Proceeding in the same fashion, we see inductively that wn < un+1 for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           327
                                                                                                                            MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                                      n = 0,1, 2,... Since each member of the sequence {wn} is uniformly
                                                                                                                                  T                                      Tf(s)ds
                                                      bounded by (c + | f(s) ds) el
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,      it         follows that the sequence
                                                      {un (¢)} converges to a function u (¢). This limit function satisfies the inte-
                                                     gral equation
                                                      (9)                                                  u(t) =e | Max (b (gs) + 4(g, 5) w]ds,
                                                                                                                                                          o            4
                                                     and hencethe differential equation almost everywhere. Wesee then that
                                                     approximation in policy space leads to convergent sequencesin the one-
                                                     dimensionalcase.
                                                             Let us turn now to the corresponding question for systems of the form
                                                     (10)                                                 dx|/dt = Max [b (q, ¢) + A (q, t) x], x (0) =c
                                                     Using the same procedure as above, it is easy to see that the problem
                                                    reduces to determining conditions upon the matrix A (q, t) which will
                                                    ensure that f(¢) > 0 for? > 0 ensures that y > 0 for ¢ > 0, where y is
                                                    the solution of
                                                    (11)                                                               dy/dt = A(q,thy + f(t), ¥(0) =0
                                                            Since the solution of (11) 1s given by
                                                    (12)                                                                          w= |YW Y-*6)f(s) ds,
                                                    where Y (¢) is the matrix solution of
                                                    (13)                                                                      aY/dt = A(qg,t) Y, Y (0) =T,
                                                   we see that a necessary and sufficient conditionis
                                                   (14)                                                                  Y(t) Y-14(s) >Ofor#>s>0,
                                                   and uniformly for qe S.
                                                           Since this is a difficult condition to verify, we shall content ourselves
                                                   with the remark that aj (q, t) > 0,1 7, 1s a sufficient condition.
                                                           If then the condition aj; (q, t) > 0,7 7, 1s satisfied for ¢ > 0 and all
                                                   g¢« S, we have the desired convergence in policy space.
                                                                   § 10. Discrete versions
                                                           In this section we wish to ascertain the asymptotic behavior of the
                                                  sequence {xi (m)}, 7 = 1, 2,..., N, determined by the recurrencerela-
                                                  tions
                                                                                                                                             N
                                                  (1)                         x, (n+1) = Max 2 ai; (q) x; (n),1 = 1, 2,...,N, n >0
                                                                                                                               q       j=l
                                                  328
                                         MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                 under certain assumptionsconcerningtheinitial values c; = x; (0) and the
                 coefficient matrix A (q).
                    Weshall begin by considering the homogeneous equation
                                                  N
                 (2)                Ayi = Max & aij (q) v0 = 1, 2,...,N,
                                             q  j=l
                 where we impose the following conditions
                 (3)   (a)  g = (4%Ye, ---, Yn) runs over a set S with the property that the
                                 maximum is attained in (1) for any set of parameters
                                 (V4, Va, eeey VN).
                       (b) 0 < ay (q) << m< co forge Sandi,j7 = 1,2,...,N.
                       (c)  for any g, let mw (gq) denote the characteristic root of A (q) =
                           (ai; (g)) of largest absolute value, the Perron root. It is assumed
                           that w(g) assumes its maximum for ge S.
                    Let us now prove
                 THEOREM 2. Under these assumptions, there exists a unique positive con-
                 stant 2 with the property that the homogeneous system in (2) has a positive
                 solution yi; > 0,1 = 1, 2,...,.N. This solution 1s unique up to a multi-
                 plicative constant, and
                 (4)                               A = Max 9 (9)
                                                         ges
                 ProoF. Weshall begin by establishing the existence of a positive A and a
                 positive solution {yi}. The simplest, though least elementary, method
                 employs the Brouwerfixedpoint theorem. Considerthe region defined by
                                                            iN
                 (5)                              v¥% 0, + w= 1
                                                          t= 1
                 The normalized transformation
                 (6)            yi’ = (Max J ay; (g) yi [2 Max[ z aij (9) Vi I,
                                           q j=l              ~=1    qd  j= 1
                 is a continuous mapping of this region into itself. It follows that there
                 exists a fixed point {yi}, constituting the required positive solution since
                 aij (q) > 0. The parameter A is the denominatorin (6).
                    To show that this solution ts unique up to multiplicative constant,let
                 [u, 2] be another solution of (2) with uw > 0 and za positive vector. Let
                 {q} be a set of values for which the maximum is attained in (2) and {q} a
                 similar set associated with z. We have
                                                                                                  329
                                      MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                (7)          Ays = &' aij (q) vj S & aaj (9) vg, 7 = 1,2, ...,.N,
                                    7
                             Lai = 2aij (q) 2;
                                    )
                  Assume, without loss of generality that A < mw, and thus that y and z
                are non-proportional vectors. If y and z are proportional, then y = z.
                Let ¢ be a positive constant chosen so that one, at least, of the compo-
                nents y; — & 2; 1S zero, oneatleast1s positive, and the others are non-nega-
                tive. If 2 is an index for which y; — ¢é 2; 18 zero, we have
                                                             ¥
                (8)      O = uw (yi — E21) > Avi — emi > 2X aij (G) (v3 — € 2;) > O,
                                                            7=1
                since ai;-(g) > 0, a contradiction. Hence y and z are proportional, which
                means that 2 = pu
                  To show that A = Max  (q), we proceed as follows. Let uw = Max @ (q).
                It is clear that A, as the characteristic root of some A (q), satisfiesthe in-
                equality A < uw. Assume for the moment that A < pw. Let z = (2, 22,...,2)
                be a positive characteristic vector associated with uw and ga set of g-values
                which yield u =  (q). Then we have
                                                                 N
                (9)                un <= E ay (9) 4 <Max ¥ ay (9) 4
                                          7=1               q   j=l
                Since each y; 1s positive, we can find a positive constant m suchthat
                (10)                     Z<myi,t = 1,2,...,N.
                  Then (9) yields
                                                   iN
                (11)               Mai Max( 2aii (Q) Vi) m= mdi
                                             q   j=l
                Thus, instead of (10) we obtain the result zi < my; A/u. Iterating this, we
                obtain 2; < my; (A/u)* for arbitrary k. Since Aju <1, by assumption,
                this yields z; = 0, a contradiction. Hence A = us
                     § 11. The recurrence relation
                   Returning to the recurrence relation of (10.1), let us prove
                THEOREM 3. If, 1n addition to the conditions of(10.3), we assume that there
                1s a unique qfor which the maximum value ofgis assumed, and that ci; > 0,
                then
                (1)                            xi (n) ~ ayia”,
                as n—> oo, where a = a (Cy, Co, ..., Cn).
                330
                                      MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                Proor.Let us take ci; > 0, without loss of generality. There are then two
                positive constants & and K such that kyi <i ci < Ky; fori = 1,2. ..., N.
                Let us show inductively that
                (2)                       kyih™< xi (n)< Kyid
                Assume that we havethe result for ”, then
                                                        N
                (3)          xi(n + 1)< KA" Max 2 aij (gq) yj = K An + hy:
                                                    q  j=1
                                                    N
                                     >kin Max 2 aij (q) Vi kArtry,
                                               q  j=1
                   To establish the asymptotic behavior we show that for sufficiently
                large n, the set of g’s which furnish the maximum in (10.1) is precisely
                the set which yields Max @ (q).
                   Assumethe contrary.This meansthat infinitely often in the recurrence
                relation of (10.1) we will employ a set {g} which is not identical with the
                set, {¢g}, which furnishes the maximumof @ (gq).
                   We then have
                                                 N
                (4)              xi (n+ 1) = 2X aay (9) xj (n), +1 = 1,2,...,N,
                                               j= 1
                                                  N
                                             <(2 aiz (9) ys) K An
                                                 j=l
                For some index 7 we must have
                                              N
                (5)                           2) aij (9) vi <Ayi,
                                            j=l
                                                 No”
                with strict inequality. For if 2 ai; (¢) v3 > Av: for allz, the characteristic
                                               j=l
                root of A (q7) = (ai; (q)) of largest absolute value would at least equal A
                = Max (q), contradicting the assumption concerning the uniquenessof
                     q
                the maximum of @ (q).
                   Hence for some component, say the first, we have
                (6)             x, (n +1) <O0KAn+1y,0<0<1
                Since aij (g*) > O for all 7, 7, where q* is the value of g for which 4 =
                py (g*), we see that, for: = 1,2, ..., N,
                                                                                            331
                                                          MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                                                                 N
                         (7)              ti (n + 2) < KA +tTDY aig (Q*) y3 + 8 ais (Q*) a),
                                                                               p= 2
                                                                          <0,KAn+2y,,
                         where 6, < l.
                             Consequently,if a set of g’s distinct from g* are used R times, we obtain
                         (8)                                         xi (n) < OF K Anyi,
                         for n large. Since 0 < 6, < 1, we eventually contradict the lower bound
                         for x; () if R is large. Hence a set of q’s distinct from g* can only be used
                         a bounded numberof times, with the bound determined by & and K.
                                § 12. Min-max
                             The same method we employed to demonstrate Theorem 1 establishes
                         the following result
                        THEOREM 4. Consider the equation
                         (1)                      dx/dt = Max Min [A (A, q,t) x + 6 (p,q,2)]
                                                                    Pp      4
                                                            = Min Max[...],x«(O)=c,
                                                                   q       Pp
                        where we assume that
                         (2)     (a) For fixed values of x and t, the max-min in (1) 1s equal to the min-
                                       max, where p and gq range over some set of admissible vectors S.
                                 (b) Max || A (6, 4g) | |, Max || (6.9.0) [|< S(O for € = 0, where
                                       [foit <0.
                            Thentheretsauniquesolutionto (1) 1n0<t< Twhichsatisfiestheequation
                        almost everywhere, and may befound as the limit of the following sequence
                        (3)      (a)   xo =,
                                (Db)   %n+1 = e+ [, Max Min [A (A, g, s) ¥n + 0 (p,q, s)] ds
                                                               o     p       4
                                                =o-+ |Min Max [4 (6, 9, 5) xm + 0 (6, 9, 8)] ds
                                                               o     4      »P
                                § 18. Generalization of a von Neumannresult
                            In the chapter devoted to multi-stage games, we established the result
                        that
                        332
                                                                                                                                                    MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                                                                                                                                                      _            (Ap, q)                                              .                                (Ad,@)
                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                        Max                  M                                                      — Min                         Max                  ————~
                                                                0)                                                                              > (BPG)                                                                               gp(BD) ’
                                                               where A andB are matrices, and # and q areprobability vectors, provided
                                                               that (Bp, gq) >d > O forall # and q.
                                                                         Let us now obtain the following generalization
                                                               THEOREM 5. Consider the scalar equation
                                                               (2)                                              du/dt = Max Min [(A#,¢) — (Bd, qg) wu], u (0) =,
                                                                                                                                                              p                   4
                                                                                                                                         = Min Max [(Ap, g) — (BA,q) uv].
                                                                                                                                                             q                   »
                                                              If(Bp, q) >d > 0for all probability vectors p and q, we have
                                                               (3)                                                                                    hm u(t) = Max Min ae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                               (AP, 9)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                 = Min                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >»(Bb,q)
                                                               Proor. The classical min-max theorem of Von Neumann guarantees the
                                                              equality of max-min and min-maxof (Af, q) — (BP,q) u for each u. The
                                                              other conditions of Theorem 4 are satisfied and ensure the existence and
                                                              uniqueness of u (¢).
                                                                       To obtain the asymptotic behavior, consider first the scalar equation
                                                             (4)                                                                                               du/dt = a — bu, u(0) =,
                                                             where a and 0 are constants and where b > 0. It 1s easy to see that the
                                                             solution is bounded as t > oo, and we can show that lim u (#) = a/b by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t— co
                                                             means of the following simple argument. Whenever du/dt = 0, we must
                                                             have u=a/b. Hence u(t) can have at most one turning point for
                                                             ¢ > 0, and thus is ultimately monotone. Since u(t) is bounded, it ap-
                                                             proaches a finite limit which must be a/b.
                                                                      Consider the nonlinear equation
                                                            (5)                                                                du/dt = Max [a (p) — b(p) uj, wu (0) = c,
                                                            where b (p) > b > 0 for all p, | a (p) | < M for all p, and a (p) and d (p)
                                                             are such that the maximum is assumed. At any turning point of 4, we
                                                            must have
                                                            (6)                                                                                                         u = Maxa(p) / 6(p).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                333
                                       MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                Consequently, «(¢) must be ultimately monotone and approachthefinite
                limit given in (6).
                   Wesee that precisely the same argument works for the equation of (2).
                At a turning point we must have
                                                                          
                                                                               9)
                                                                          (Ap,
                                                                    Max
                                                               Min
                                                            =
                                                        1
                                                  (Ap,
                                             Min
                                        Max
                                    =
                                  u
                (7)
                                          p    9   (BP,4q)       a    p   (BP, 4)
                      Exercises and Research Problems for Chapter XI
                 {. A merchant has      identical items and a length of time ¢ to dispose of
                these. Goods may be sold at times 0, 1, 2, ..., #, and the probability of
                selling an item depends uponits price. Let » (z) be the probability that an
                item of price z is sold when displayed at a particular time.
                   Define fn (t) to be the maximum expected return from m items over a
                maximum sale period of ¢. Assuming independence of sales, obtain the
                recurrence relation
                     fn (t) = Max [* (i) p (2)* (L— op (2))"~* [fn - «€— 1) + Ae]],
                               z=    r= 0
                withfn (0) = 0.                                                        (Darling)
                2. Assume that the items are on sale continuously, and that @ (z) dé re-
                presents the probability that an item of price z will be sold in a time-inter-
                val (¢, ¢ + dt). Show that the limiting form of the above recurrencerela-
                tion 1s
                       fx’(t) = Max | — No (2) fn () + No (2)fv - 1 4) + Noe (2)
                                  z>0
                                                 fw (0) = 0,
                                              N > 1,fo (e) — 0.
                3. Consider the case N = 1 in Problem 4. Show that if we solve the
                equation
                                  F(t) =—o(z) F() +), F 0) =9,
                obtaining
                                  F(t) =F(,2 = [ oPOM(2) ds,
                thenf, () = MaxF (t, 2).               "
                               z>0
                4. Show that the equation
                                                                                 0
                                                                              =
                                                                         (0)
                                                            +29),
                                                      A)
                                                   (2)
                                                 9
                                             (—
                                        Max
                                    =
                                 (t)
                              Fi’
                                        z>0
                334
                                                                          MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                is equivalent to the two equations
                                                                 fi Q=—e¢®)Ad +29(2),f1 (0) =0
                                                                         0=—¢y'(2)fi+9(2) +29’(2).
                                5. Consider in detail the particular cases where
                                     a. yp (z) = be™
                                     b. p (z) = (R—2z)/k,O<2z<k
                                                      = 0,                         z>k
                                6.    Obtain the solution of the equations in Exercise 2 for general N.
                                7.    Consider the similar situation in which we have the same item in two
                               price ranges. How do weset the prices?
                                8. Consider the process in Problem 1 in which we reduce the price per
                               item for multiple orders. How should this be done to maximize expected
                               profit ?
                               9,     Establish existence and uniqueness theoremsfor integral equationsof
                               the form
                                                            u() = Max (a                          N+ |K@ts)u(s) ds),
                               under appropriate assumptions.
                               10. Obtain results corresponding to those in § 8 for the equations
                                                                                w=uk + p(thu+ q(t),
                               fork >landO<k <1.
                               11. Consider the general case where
                                                                                              u' = g(u,t),
                               and g is either strictly convex in w forall ¢, or strictly concave.
                               12. Consider the Riccati equation
                                                                               du
                                                                               7ta(t),u(0) =<,
                              and the sequence of successive approximations defined by
                                                                   d
                                                                   ==
                                                                                  2U9Vo
                                                                                             —
                                                                                                    Vo
                                                                                                           +
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                     (Zt),
                                                                                                                             uo
                                                                                                                                  (0)
                                                                                                                                          =
                                                                                                                                               ¢,
                                                       dun
                                                            Fp
                                                                       Dit
                                                                                      +1
                                                                                            in
                                                                                                  —
                                                                                                        tn?
                                                                                                                 +
                                                                                                                       a(t),
                                                                                                                                 hn
                                                                                                                                        +1
                                                                                                                                              (0)
                                                                                                                                                      =
                                                                                                                                                           ¢,
                              where vo (¢) is an arbitrary continuous function.
                                                                                                                                                                                335
                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                               MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
                                                                                       Show that this method is equivalent to a certain approximation in
                                                                           policy space, and that uw <m<...<ua<..., macommoninterval
                                                                           of definition.
                                                                           13. Similarly, consider the sequence defined by
                                                                                                                        dun +1                                                                                                                                                                             Oy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,Un +1 (0) =,
                                                                                                                                                  _- =                                         n, t                                           n+1——7t&Un
                                                                                                                                    zi                                               (un,                     t)      + (Un                           +1                             Un) a
                                                                          in connection with the equation du/dt = o (u, t), wu (0) =c.
                                                                           14. What is the connection between this method of successive ap-
                                                                          proximations and Newton’s method for solving equations?
                                                                          15. What is the connection between the approximation schemes outlined
                                                                         above and the concept of approximation in policy space?
                                                                                                                                    Bibliography and Comments for Chapter XI
                                                                                    § 1. A discussion of these processes, and formulation of the corresponding
                                                                         functional equations is contained in R. Bellman, ‘“‘Functional Equations in
                                                                         the Theory of Dynamic Programming—IV, Multi-Stage Decision Processes
                                                                        of Continuous Type,’’ Rand Paper p. 705, June 1955.
                                                                                    § 2. Foratreatment of Markoff processes, we refer to the book W.Feller,
                                                                         Probability Theory, John Wiley and Sons, 1948.
                                                                                    § 5. Existence and uniqueness theoremsfor this type of nonlinear differen-
                                                                        tial equation were given in R. Bellman, ‘‘Functional Equations in the Theory
                                                                        of Dynamic Programming—II, Nonlinear Differential Equations,’’ Proc. Nat.
                                                                        Acad. Sci., vol. 41 (1955), pp. 482-5.
                                                                                   The consequenceof the inequality in (5.13), stated in (5.16), is a fundamen-
                                                                        tal inequality in the study of boundedness and stability of the solutions of
                                                                        linear and nonlinear differential equations. It was first used in this way in
                                                                         R. Bellman, ‘‘The Stability of Solutions of Linear Differential Equations,”’
                                                                        Duke Math. Jour., vol. 10 (1943), pp. 643-7, and other applications may be
                                                                        found in R. Bellman, Stability Theory of Differential Equations, McGraw-
                                                                        Hill, 1952.
                                                                                   § 8. For an application of this device to other classes of functional
                                                                        equations see R. Bellman, ‘‘Functional Equations in the Theory of Dynamic
                                                                        Programming—V, Positivity and Linearity,’’ Proc. Nat. Acad. Sct., vol. 41
                                                                        336
                     MARKOVIAN DECISION PROCESSES
         (1955), pp. 743-6. and also R. Bellman, ‘“‘On the Explicit Solutions of Some
         Algebraic Equations,’’ Math. Mag., 1956.
          § 10. The contentsof this section appeared originally in R. Bellman, “On
         a Class of Quasi-Linear Equations,’’ Can. Jour. of Math., 1956.
          § 13. This extension was announced in the paper cited above in the
         comment on § 8.
                                                   337
                                                                                                                        INDEX OF APPLICATIONS
                                                   allocation processes, 7, 31, 40 (exer. 17, 18, 19, 20), 51 (exer. 54), 55 (exer. 68),
                                                           59 (exer. 78), 93 (exer. 18, 19, 20), 108 (exer. 72), 313 (exer. 21)
                                                   calculus of variations, Chapter IX
                                                   cargo-loading, 45 (exer. 21), 103 (exer. 54, 55)
                                                   cascade process, 58 (exer. 76, 77), 99 (exer. 38)
                                                   cattle-breeding, 46 (exer. 22, 23, 24, 25, 26), 102 (exer. 52)
                                                   communication and information theory, 140 (exer. 33, 34, 35), 141 (exer. 36,
                                                           37, 38, 39), 142 (exer. 40, 41), 143 (exer. 42, 43)
                                                   control processes, Chapter IX
                                                   equipmentreplacement, 50 (exer. 45, 46, 47, 48), 56 (exer. 70), 114 (exer. 93,
                                                           94)
                                                   forestry, 112 (exer. 88)
                                                   game theory, Chapter X
                                                   information theory; see communication theory
                                                   inventory and stock level, Chapter V, 334 (exer. 1, 2, 3, 4), 335 (exer. 5, 6, 7, 8)
                                                   investment, 46 (exer. 27, 28), 55 (exer. 68), 56 (exer. 69)
                                                   maximization Or minimization of linear functions, 47 (exer. 30, 31, 32), 55
                                                           (exer. 64), 58 (exer. 75), 95 (exer. 25), 96 (exer. 26, 27, 28), 97 (exer. 29,
                                                           31, 32), 98 (exer. 33, 37), 187 (exer. 23, 24), 138 (exer. 25, 26, 27), 146
                                                           (exer. 56), 147 (exer. 57, 58, 59, 60)
                                                   multi-dimensional maximization, 10, 40 (exer. 1), 41 (exer. 2, 3, 4, 5), 42
                                                          (exer. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10), 43 (exer. 11, 12, 13, 14, 15), 52 (exer. 56, 57), 53 (exer.
                                                           58, 59), 54 (exer. 68), 56 (exer. 69), 57 (exer. 71, 72, 73), 59 (exer. 78), 92
                                                          (exer. 14), 101 (exer. 47, 48), 102 (exer. 49, 50, 51), 103 (exer. 56), 104 (exer.
                                                           58, 59), 105 (exer. 61), 107 (exer. 68), 108 (exer. 73), 109 (exer. 74, 75, 76),
                                                           113 (exer. 90, 91), 114 (exer. 92), 139 (exer. 32), 145 (exer. 54), 150 (exer. 68)
                                                   multi-stage production and scheduling, 53 (exer. 60), 54 (exer. 61, 62, 63), 90
                                                          (exer. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12), 92 (exer. 15), 93 (exer. 16, 17), 96 (exer. 26, 27),
                                                           103 (exer. 57), 107 (exer. 70), 112 (exer. 88), 133 (exer. 4, 5), 149 (exer. 66),
                                                           150 (exer. 69, 70), Chapters VI, VII
                                                  optimal trajectory, 48 (exer. 35, 36, 37), 107 (exer. 69), 279 (exer. 33, 34),
                                                           280 (exer. 35)
                                                  probability theory, 136 (exer. 21), Chapter XI
                                                   00Ly55(exer. 65), 91 (exer. 12), 92 (exer. 13), 112 (exer. 89), 113 (exer.
                                                            90, 91
                                                   rockets, 145 (exer. 55), 279 (exer. 33, 34), 280 (exer. 35)
                                                   search processes, 34, 111 (exer. 84), 133 (exer. 6, 7)
                                                   sequential testing, 47 (exer. 29), 48 (exer. 39, 40), 49 (exer. 41), 50 (exer. 49),
                                                           90 (exer. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7), 94 (exer. 21, 22, 23), 95 (exer. 24), 99 (exer. 39,
                                                           40), 100 (exer. 41, 42), 104 (exer. 60, 109 (exer. 79), 111 (exer. 85), 112
                                                           (exer. 86, 87), 313 (exer. 17, 18, 19, 20)
                                                   smoothing, 10, 49 (exer. 42, 43, 44), 95 (exer. 25), 103 (exer. 57), 110 (exer.
                                                           80, 81), 111 (exer. 82, 83), 137 (exer. 23, 24)
                                                   solution of equations, 134 (exer. 12, 13), 135 (exer. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18), 136
                                                           (exer. 5) 144 (exer. 52), 145 (exer. 53), 335 (exer. 10, 11, 12), 336 (exer.
                                                                   ,       14,          15
                                                   stochastic allocation, 37, 51 (exer. 51, 52, 53), 61ff., 101 (exer. 45, 46),
                                                           Chapter VIII
                                                   transportation, 96 (exer. 28), 97 (exer. 29, 30, 31), 98 (exer. 33, 34, 35, 36),
                                                           103 (exer. 54, 55), 107 (exer. 67, 69), 108 (exer. 71), 139 (exer. 28, 29, 30, 31)
                                                   water resources, 143 (exer. 45, 46, 47, 48), 144 (exer. 49, 50, 51)
                      NAME AND SUBJECT INDEX
                                  Feller, 60, 182, 337
          allocation process, 4, 38
                                  Fine, 103
          Ambarzumian, 115
          Antosiewicz, 111
                                  Fleming, 59, 282, 316
                                  Flood, xv22
          Arrow, x222, 80, 149, 182
          approximation in policy space, 16,
                                  flooding technique, 206
           65, 88, 326
                                  functional equation, 7, 39, 188, 29
          Bailey, E. B., xv2
                                  gamesof survial, 287, 303
                                  Girshick, ¥v11, 80, 315
          Bartlett, 60
          Beale, +v11
                                  Glicksberg, xv22, 59, 182
          Bellman, B. J., v       Greenspan, 35
          Bellman, R., 59, 60, 115, 139, 140,
                                  Gross, *v111, 78, 107, 111, 133, 136,
           151, 182, 206, 221, 244, 280, 282,
                                   144, 182
           310, 315, 316, 337
          Blackwell, xvi1, 80, 244, 310, 315
                                  Hadamard, 115
                                  Haight, 112
          Boelter, 144
          Boldyreff, xvit, xv111, 206
                                  Hall, 143
                                  Harris, 7722, 115, 182
          Borel, 283
          bottleneck process, 185 Hausner, 311
                                  Helmer, ¥v227, 103
          Cairns, 90              Hille, 115
          Cartaino, 280           Hitchcock, *v21, 97
          causality, 87, 115
                                  Hobby, 101
          Cerri, Silvestri, and Villan, 59
                                  Hoffman, 111
          Chandrasekhar, 115
          computational solution, 25, 114, 254,
                                  integral approach, 224
           266
                                  Isaacs, 315, 316
          concavity, 19, 22, 33, 34
          continuous deterministic process, 86
                                  Johnson, 60, 91, 111, 144, 149, 150
          continuous stochastic process, 87
                                  Juncosa, 108
          convexity, 19, 42, 176
                                  Kalaba, 107, 108, 115, 140
          criterion function, 82
                                  Karlin, «viz, 80, 151, 312, 315
          Danskin, 182            Karush, 109
          Dantzig, xvi, 205       Kelly, 140
                                  Kiefer, 272, 60, 182
          Darling, 334
                                  Koopmans, ¥v11, 97, 205
          decision process, viz, 317
                                  Kuhn, *#v22
          decision region, 79
          delta-function, 198, 211
          differential approach, 223
                                  La Salle, xvz2, 315
         discrete deterministic process, 83
                                  Leacock, 284
                                  Lehman, #v211, 206, 221, 244
          discrete stochastic process, 85
                                  linear programming, ¥v2, 183
          Doob, 244
         Dresher, 315             Littlewood, 107
         Dreyfus, xvi1i, 96, 280
                                  Markowitz, 149
         dual process, 197, 200, 209
                                  Marschak, +122
         Dvoretzky, xiii, 182
                                  Milnor, 316
         dynamic programming, v21, ¥v1,
                                  Mills, 181
           Chapter III
                                  min-max, 285, 332
                                  mixing, 226
         existence and uniqueness, Chapter
                                  monotone convergence, 122
           IV
                                                      339
                                         NAME AND SUBJECT INDEX
                Morgenstern, *v11, 315
                                                         Shapley, 313, 316
                Morton, 112                              Shepherd, 104
                Mosteller, 51                            Shiffman, 8
                multi-stage decision process, v22        simplex technique, 183, 205, 206
                                                         smoothing, 10
                Nadel, 113
                                                         Southwell, 206
                Nash, 315
                                                         stability, 29, 76, 123
                non-zero sum game, 287, 309              state variables, 81
                                                         Stieltjes integral, 40, 117, 198
                optimal inventory, 129, 152,
                                                         Stokes, 115
                  Chapter V                              successive approximations, 14, 16,
                optimal policy, 82, 87
                                                           Chapter IV, 300
                Osborne, *v111, 244, 282
                                                         Ten Dyke, 146
                                                         Tucker, A. C., xv1
                Paxson, *v1211
                                                         Tucker, A. W., xvii
                Peisakoff, 316
                policy, v222, 155
                                                         von Neumann, #122, 283, 315, 316,
                policy space, 16, 65, 88
                principle of optimality, 83, 291           332
                                                         Wald, xv21, 315
                renewal equation, 177
                                                         Wang, 136
                Robbins, 315
                                                         Whittaker, 57
                                                         Widder, 282
                Savage, 57
                                                         Williams, 315
                Schoenberg, 59
                                                         Wolfowitz, x112, xv11, 182
                Schwarz, 206
                Selberg, 105
                                                         zero-sum game, 285
                sensitivity analysis, 6, 187
                Shapiro, *v211, 78, 80, 151
                  Selected RAND Books
                   Arrow, Kenneth J., and Marvin Hoffenberg. A TIME SERIES ANALY-
                      SIS OF INTERINDUSTRY DEMANDS.North-Holland Publishing
                      Company, Amsterdam, Holland, 1959.
                  Brodie, Bernard. STRATEGY IN THE MISSILE AGE. Princeton
                      University Press, Princeton, New Jersey, 1959.
                  Dantzig, George B. LINEAR PROGRAMMING AND EXTENSIONS.
                      Princeton University Press, Princeton, New Jersey, 1963.
                  Dole, Stephen H. HABITABLE PLANETS FOR MAN. (Reprint),
                      American Elsevier Publishing Company, New York, 1970.
                  Dorfman, Robert, Paul A. Samuelson, and Robert M. Solow. LINEAR
                      PROGRAMMING AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS. McGraw-Hill
                      Book Company, Inc., New York, 1958.
                  Downs, Anthony. INSIDE BUREAUCRACY.Little, Brown and Com-
                      pany, Boston, Massachusetts, 1967.
                  Fisher, Gene H. COST CONSIDERATIONS IN SYSTEMS ANALY-
                      SIS. American Elsevier Publishing Company, New York, 1970.
                  George, Alexander L. PROPAGANDA ANALYSIS: A STUDY OF
                      INFERENCES MADE FROM NAZI PROPAGANDA IN WORLD
                      WARII. Row, Peterson and Company, Evanston,Illinois, 1959.
                  Goldhamer, Herbert, and Andrew W. Marshall. PSYCHOSIS AND
                      CIVILIZATION. The Free Press, Glencoe, Illinois, 1953.
                  Gurtov, Melvin. SOUTHEAST ASIA TOMORROW: PROBLEMS
                      AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S. POLICY. Johns Hopkins Press,
                      Baltimore, Maryland, 1970.
                  Halpern, Manfred. THE POLITICS OF SOCIAL CHANGEIN THE
                      MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA. Princeton University
                      Press, Princeton, New Jersey, 1963.
                  Hearle, Edward F. R., and Raymond J. Mason. A DATA PROC-
                      ESSING SYSTEM:FOR STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.
                      Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1963.
                  Hitch, Charles J., and Roland McKean. THE ECONOMICS OF DE-
                      FENSE IN THE NUCLEAR AGE.Harvard University Press, Cam-
                      bridge, Massachusetts, 1960.
                  Johnson, John J. (ed.). THE ROLE OF THE MILITARY IN UN-
                      DERDEVELOPED COUNTRIES. Princeton University Press,
                      Princeton, New Jersey, 1962.
                  Johnstone, William C. BURMA’S FOREIGN POLICY: A STUDY IN
                     NEUTRALISM. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachu-
                     setts,   1963.
          Kolkowicz, Roman. THE SOVIET MILITARY AND THE COMMD-
           NIST PARTY. Princeton University Press, Princeton, New Jersey,
           1967.
          Leites, Nathan. ON THE GAME OF POLITICS IN FRANCE.Stan-
           ford University Press, Stanford, California, 1959.
          Leites, Nathan, and Charles Wolf, Jr. REBELLION AND AUTHOR-
           ITY. Markham Publishing Company, Chicago, Illinois, 1970.
          McKean, Roland N. EFFICIENCY IN GOVERNMENT THROUGH
           SYSTEMS ANALYSIS: WITH EMPHASIS ON WATER RE-
           SOURCE DEVELOPMENT.John Wiley & Sons, 1958.
          McKinsey, J.C.C. INTRODUCTION TO THE THEORY OF GAMES.
           McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York, 1952.
          Meyer, John R., Martin Wohl, and John F. Kain. THE URBAN
           TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM.Harvard University Press, Cam-
           bridge, Massachusetts, 1965.
         Nelson, Richard R., Merton J. Peck, and Edward J. Kalachek. TECH-
           NOLOGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND PUBLIC POLICY. The
           Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C., 1967.
         Nelson, Richard R., T. Paul Schultz, and Robert L. Slighton. STRUC-
           TURAL CHANGE IN A DEVELOPING ECONOMY.Princeton
           University Press, Princeton, New Jersey, 1971.
         Pascal, Anthony. THINKING ABOUT CITIES: NEW PERSPEC-
           TIVES ON URBAN PROBLEMS.Dickenson Publishing Company,
           Belmont, California, 1970.
         Quade, Edward S., and Walter I. Boucher. SYSTEMS ANALYSIS
           AND POLICY PLANNING: APPLICATIONS IN DEFENSE.
           American Elsevier Publishing Company, New York, 1968.
         Rosen, George. DEMOCRACY AND ECONOMIC CHANGE IN
           INDIA. University of California Press, Berkeley and Los Angeles,
           California, 1966.
         Sharpe, William F. THE ECONOMICS OF COMPUTERS. Columbia
           University Press, New York, 1969.
         Smith, Bruce L., and Chitra M. Smith. INTERNATIONAL COMMU-
           NICATION AND POLITICAL OPINION: A GUIDE TO THE
           LITERATURE.Princeton University Press, Princeton, New Jersey,
           1956.
         The RAND Corporation. A MILLION RANDOM DIGITS WITH
           100,000 NORMAL DEVIATES. The Free Press, Glencoe, Illinois,
           1955.
         Wolf, Charles, Jr. FOREIGN AID: THEORY AND PRACTICE IN
           SOUTHERN ASIA. Princeton University Press, Princeton, New
           Jersey, 1960.
