                  iScience                                                                                                                                 ll
                                                                                                                                                     OPENACCESS
                  Article
                  Voxel self-attention and center-point
                  for 3D object detector
                                  1            1              1                 1                  1                    2                          1,3,*
                  Likang Fan, Jie Cao, Xulei Liu, Xianyong Li, Liting Deng, Hongwei Sun, and Yiqiang Peng
                  SUMMARY
                  Withtheadvancementofautonomousdriving,theindustrialdemandfor3Dobjectdetectionhascontin-
                  uouslyincreased,leadingtothedevelopmentofanchor-basedLiDARobjectdetectorsreliantonconvolu-
                  tional neural networks (CNN). However, on the one hand, the poor receptive ﬁeld of CNN limits the un-
                  derstanding of the scene. On the other hand, anchor-based methods cannot accurately predict the
                  posture of objects in the steering. Therefore, in this paper, we propose the voxel self-attention and cen-
                  ter-point (VSAC).Firstly,avoxelself-attentionnetworkisdesignedintoVSACtocaptureextensivevoxel
                  relationship.Secondly,consideringtheimpactoffeatureweightonpredictionresults,thepseudospatio-
                  temporalfeaturepyramidnet(PST-FPN)isproposed.Finally,weemployacenter-pointdetectionheadto
                  makethepredictiondirectionclosertotherealobjectduringsteering.TheexperimentalresultsofVSAC
                  onthewidelyusedKITTIdataset,WaymoOpenDataset,andnuScenesdatasetdemonstrateitspositive
                  performance.
                  INTRODUCTION
                                                                              1,2                      3                         4
                  With the increasing application of autonomous driving,         robotic technology, and 3D reconstruction, the traditional 2D image detection
                  can no longer satisfy the requirement of accurately perceiving information in complex environments. Accurate environmental perception
                  in space is crucial for the safety of autonomous driving vehicles. Object detection is an important component of environmental perception
                                                                5–7
                  andobjectdetectionbasedon2Dimages                plays a certain role in autonomous driving. However, 2D images cannot accurately provide the
                  depthandspatialstructureofdetectedobjects,leadingtoimprecisedetectionresultsinthethree-dimensionalenvironmentofautonomous
                                                                      8,9
                  driving. Even though there are existing methods        to obtain 3D depth from images, the results of such object detection are often unstable.
                      Unlike 2D images obtained from cameras, 3D point cloud data of LiDAR provides precise depth and spatial structure information, which
                  can accurately describe the geometric characteristics of objects in autonomous driving. However, due to the properties of LiDAR 3D point
                  cloud data, 3D object detection in autonomous driving faces the challenges and potential impact:(1) Due to the unordered arrangement of
                  LiDARpointcloudsinspace,featureextractionfor3Dobjectdetectionmethodsbecomesmorecomplex.(2)BecauseofthesparsityofLiDAR
                  pointcloudsinspace,3Dobjectdetectionmethodswastesigniﬁcantcomputationalresourcesincalculatingineffectivevoxelspaces.(3)Due
                  to potential occlusions of target objects, the information in LiDAR point clouds may be incomplete, leading to missed detections in auton-
                  omousdriving perception systems.
                      Toaddressthechallengesposedby3DobjectdetectioninLiDARpointclouddata,aseriesofvoxel-basedmethods10–14havebeenpro-
                  posed.Thesemethodsusuallydividethepointcloudinspaceintoregularlyarrangedvoxelgrids,andthenutilize CNNtolearnspatialfea-
                  tures. Compared to 2D image detection, dependent on the CNN 3D detectors are able to capture richer spatial information and detailed
                  geometricalstructures from LiDAR point cloud data. However, due to the limitations of the receptive ﬁeld, CNN often fail to capture the re-
                  lationships between point clouds over a large area, which is disadvantageous for 3D point cloud detection tasks. Therefore, how to use the
                  original point cloud data to obtain the intrinsic connection between the point clouds becomes the primary problem in the 3D object detec-
                  tion task.
                                                                                                                                 15           16                    17
                      Recently,attention-basedmethodshavedemonstratedoutstandingcapabilitiesintheclassiﬁcation,                    detection    andsegmentation of
                                                                                                                                          18–21
                  2Dimages. After that, attention-based methods also have been gradually applied to 3D point cloud projects,                   and have achieved well
                                                                   22
                  performance. In the existing research, CT3D        proposed a two-stage point cloud detector where the ﬁrst stage grouped the point clouds
                  byextracting3Dregionofinterest(RoI)andthesecondstageappliedattentiontothegroupedpointclouds.Nevertheless,duetothesparse-
                  nessandirregularityofthepointcloud,thereisvariationinthenumberofpointswithineachRoI,resultingindetectionoutcomeinstability.In
                  ordertoaddressthisproblem,VoTr23employedanattentionmechanismwithinvoxelstomaintainthestabilityofresultsbutthevoxelatten-
                                                                                                                                      24
                  tion range is still unsatisfactory. In addition, most of these detectors adopt an anchor-based detection head,         whichoftenfailstoaccurately
                  predict the orientation of cars during turning.
                  1Vehicle Measurement, Control and Safety Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Xihua University, Sichuan 100089, China
                  2GuangdongXinbaoElectrical Appliances Holdings CO, LTD, Longzhou Road, Leliu Town, Shunde District, Foshan City, Guangdong, P.R. China
                  3Lead contact
                  *Correspondence: yqpeng@mail.xhu.edu.cn
                  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isci.2024.110759
                                                                           iScience 27, 110759, September 20, 2024 ª 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc.    1
                                                          This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/).
