                  ll                                                                     iScience
               OPENACCESS                                                                   Article
           Figure 8. Real vehicle detection visualization
           Limitations of the study
           VSAChasbeensuccessfullydeployedonanautonomousdrivingrealvehicleplatformforonlinedetection,demonstratingitsindustrialvalue.
           However,theapplicationofVSACinautonomousdrivingstillhassomelimitations.Speciﬁcally,whenthedetectedobjectsaretoofarawayor
           occluded(resultinginsparsepointcloudreﬂections),VSACmayfailtodetecttheseobjects.Thiscouldimpacttheperformanceofsubsequent
           planning and control systems in autonomous driving. Future work aims to address these issues, ensuring that objects at a distance or under
           occlusion can still be accurately recognized by the perception system and relayed to the planning and control systems.
           RESOURCEAVAILABILITY
           Leadcontact
           Further information and requests for resources and reagents should be directed to and will be fulﬁlled by the Lead Contact, Yiqiang Peng (yqpeng@mail.xhu.
           edu.cn).
           Materials availability
           This study did not generate new unique reagents.
           Data and code availability
              Therawsequencingdatacomesfrompublicdatasets,includingtheKITTIdataset,theWaymoOpenDataset,andthenuScenesdataset.Thewebsitesfor
               accessing these public datasets can be found in the key resources table, and other data can be obtained from the lead contact.
              Thecodeusedinthispaperwill be shared upon reasonable request from the lead contact.
              Anyadditional information required to reanalyze the data reported in this paper is available from the lead contact upon request.
           ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
           This work is partly ﬁnancially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 52202461.
           AUTHORCONTRIBUTIONS
           L.F. and X.Liu. completed the writing of the manuscript, J.C. supported the method and idea of the paper, X.Li. and H.S. completed the modeling of the paper,
           Y.P. and L.D. provided technical support in the experimental part of the paper.
           DECLARATIONOFINTERESTS
           The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
           14  iScience 27, 110759, September 20, 2024
