CAT VISUAL CORTEX 143

not been distinguished, but there is no reason to think that both do not
oceur.

The properties of complex fields are not easily accounted for by sup-
posing that these cells receive afferents directly from the lateral geniculate
body. Rather, the correspondence between simple and complex fields
noted in Part I suggests that cells with complex fields are of higher order,
having cells with simple fields as their afferents. These simple fields would
all have identical axis orientation, but would differ from one another in
their exact retinal positions. An example of such a scheme is given in
Text-fig. 20. The hypothetical cell illustrated has a complex field like that

Text-fig. 20. Possible scheme for explaining the organization of complex receptive
fields. A number of cells with simple fields, of which three are shown schematically,
are imagined to project to a single cortical cell of higher order. Each projecting
neurone has a receptive field arranged as shown to the left: an excitatory region to
the left and an inhibitory region to the right of a vertical straight-line boundary.
The boundaries of the fields are staggered within an area outlined by the inter-
rupted lines. Any vertical-edge stimulus falling across this rectangle, regardless
of its position, will excite some simple-field cells, leading to excitation of the higher-
order cell.

of Text-figs. 5 and 6. One may imagine that it receives afferents from a set
of simple cortical cells with fields of type G, Text-fig. 2, all with vertical
axis orientation, and staggered along a horizontal line. An edge of light
would activate one or more of these simple cells wherever it fell within the
complex field, and this would tend to excite the higher-order cell.

Similar schemes may be proposed to explain the behaviour of other
complex units. One need only use the corresponding simple fields as
building blocks, staggering them over an appropriately wide region. A
cell with the properties shown in Text-fig. 3 would require two types of
horizontally oriented simple fields, having ‘off’ centres above the hori-
zontal line, and ‘on’ centres below it. A slit of the same width as these
centre regions would strongly activate only those cells whose long narrow

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
