CAT VISUAL CORTEX 117

bursts occurred at irregular intervals, at frequencies up to about 20/sec.
For this cell} movement of an optimally oriented slit was about equally
effective in either of the two opposite directions. This was not true of all
complex units, as will be seen in some of the examples given below.

Like the cell of Text-fig. 3 this cell may be thought of as having a
counterpart in simple fields of the type shown in Text-fig. 2C-H. It shares
with these simpler fields the attribute of respondimg wel! to properly
oriented slit stimuli, Once more the distinction lies in the permissible
Variation in position oi the optimally oriented stimulus. The variation is
small (relative to the size of the receptive field) in the simple fields, large
in the complex. Though resembling the ceil of Text-ig. 3 in requiring a
slit for a stimulus, this cell differed in that its responses to a properly
oriented slit were mixed (‘on-off’) in type. This was not unusual for cells
with complex fields: In contrast, cortical cells with simple fields, like
retinal ganglion cells and lateral geniculate cells, responded to optimum
Testricted stimuli either with excitatory (on) responses or inhibitory
(‘off ) responses. When a stimulus covered opposing regions, the effects
normally tended to cancel, though sometimes mixed discharges were
obtained, the ‘on’ and ‘off? components both being weak. For these
simpler fields “on-off responses were thus an indication that the stimulus
was not optimum. Yet some cells with complex fields responded with mixed
discharges even to the most effective stationary stimuli we could find.
Among the stimuli tried were curved objects, dark stripes, and still more
complicated patterns, as well as monochromatic spots and slits.

A third type of complex field is illustrated in Text-figs. 5 and 6. There
were no responses to small circular spots or to slits, but an edge was very
eiiective if Oriented vertically. Excitatory or inhibitory responses were
produced depending on whether the brishter area was to the left or the
right (Text-fig. 5A, #). So far, these are just the responses one would
expect from a cell with a vertically oriented simple field of the type shown
in Textfig. 2G. In such a field the stimulus placement for optimum
response is generally very critical. On the contrary, the complex unit
responded to vertical edges over an unusually large region about 16° in
length (Text-fig. 6). “On” responses were obtained with light to the left
(A—D), and “oft responses with light to the right (7-77), regardless of the
position of the line separating light from darkness. When the entire
receptive field was illuminated diffusely (/) no response was evoked. As
with all complex fields, we are unable to account for these responses by any
simple spatial arrangement of excitatory and inhibitory regions.

Like the complex units already described, this cell was apparently more
concerned with the orientation of a stimulus than with its exact position
in the receptive field. It differed in responding well to edges but poorly or

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
