110 D. H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

inhibitory region suppressed the firing and evoked a discharge at ‘off’. A
large spot confined to either area produced a greater change in rate of
firing than a small spot, indicating summation within either region. On
the other hand, the two types of region within a receptive field were
mutually antagonistic. This was most forcefully shown by the absence or
near absence Of a response to simultaneous illumination of both regions,
for example, with diffuse light. From the arrangement of excitatory and
inhibitory regions it was usually possible to predict in a qualitative way the
responses to any shape of stimulus, stationary or moving. Spots having
the approximate shape of one or other region were the most effective
stationary stimuli; smaller spots failed to take full advantage of summa-
tion within a region, while larger ones were likely to invade opposing regions,
so reducing the response. To summarize: these fields were termed ‘simple’
because like retinal and geniculate fields (1) they were subdivided into
distinct excitatory and inhibitory regions; (2) there was summation within
the separate excitatory and inhibitory parts; (3) there was antagonism
between excitatory and inhibitory regions; and (4) it was possible to pre-
dict responses to stationary or moving spots of various shapes from a map
of the excitatory and inhibitory areas.

While simple cortical receptive fields were similar to those of retinal
ganglion cells and geniculate cells in possessing excitatory and inhibitory
subdivisions, they differed profoundly in the spatial arrangements of these
regions. The receptive fields of all retinal ganglion and geniculate cells had
one or other of the concentric forms shown in Text-fig. 2A, B. (Excitatory
areas are indicated by crosses, inhibitory areas by triangles.) In contrast,
simple cortical fields all had a side-to-side arrangement of excitatory and
inhibitory areas with separation of the areas by parallel straight-line
boundaries rather than circular ones. There were several varieties of fields,
differing in the number of subdivisions and the relative area occupied by
each subdivision. The commonest arrangements are illustrated in Text-fig.
2C-G: Table I gives the number of cells observed in each category. The
departure of these fields from circular symmetry introduces a new variable,
namely, the orientation of the boundaries separating the field subdivisions.
This orientation is a characteristic of each cortical cell, and may be vertical,
horizontal, or oblique. There was no indication that any one orientation
was more common than the others. We shall use the term receptive-field
axis to mdicate 2 line through the centre of a field, parallel to the boundaries
separating excitatory and inhibitory regions. The azis orientation will then
refer to the orientation of these boundaries, either on the retina or in the
visual field, Axes are shown in Text-fig. 2 by continuous lines.

Two common types of fields, shown in Text-fig: 2C, D, each consisted
of a narrow elongated area, excitatory or inhibitory, flanked on either side

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
