140 D.H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

recorded from layer 4, all of which had simple fields. These findings
suggest that cells may to some extent be segregated according to field
complexity, and the rarity with which simple and complex fields were
mapped together is consistent with this possibility.

Ocular dominance

In thirty-four multiple recordings the eye-dominance group (see Part IT)
was determined for both or all three cells. In eleven of these recordings
there was a clear difference in ocular dominance between cells. Similarly,
in a single penetration two cells recorded in sequence frequently differed
in eye dominance. Cells from several different eye-dominance categories
appeared not only in single penetrations, but also in sequences in which all
cells had a common axis orientation. Thus within a single column defined
by a common axis orientation there were cells of different eye dominance.
A sequence of cells within one column is formed by cells 1-11 of Text-fig.
15. Here eye dominance ranged from wholly contralateral (group 1) to
strongly ipsilateral (group 6). The two simultaneously recorded cells 5 and.
6 were dominated by opposite eyes.

While these results suggested that cells of different ocular dominance
were present within single columns, there were nevertheless indications
of some grouping. First, in twenty-three of the thirty-four multiple
recordings, simultaneously observed cells fell into the same ocular-
dominance group. Secondly, in many penetrations short sequences of cells
having the same relative eye dominance were probably more common than
would be expected from 2 random scattering. Several short sequences are
shown in Text-fig. 13 and 14. When such sequences consisted of cells with
extreme unilateral dominance (dominance groups 1, 2, 6, and 7) the
undifferentiated background activity was usually also driven predo-
minantly by one eye, suggesting that other neighbouring units had similar
eye preference. If cells of common eye dominance are in fact regionally
grouped, the groups would seem to be relatively small. The cells could be
arranged in nests, or conceivably in very narrow columns or thin layers.

In summary, cells within a column defined by a common field-axis
orientation do not necessarily all have the same ocular dominance; yet
neither do cells seem to be scattered at random through the cortex with
respect to this characteristic.

DISCUSSION
A scheme for the elaboration of simple and complex receptive fields

Comparison of responses of cells in the lateral geniculate body with re-
sponses from striate cortex brings out profound differences in the
receptive-field organization of cells in the two structures. For cortical

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
