146 D.H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

Diffuse light is at best a poor stimulus, and for cells in the area of central
representation it is usually ineffective at any intensity.

An interesting feature of cortical cells with complex fields may be seen
in their departure from the process of progressively increasing specificity.
At this stage, for the first time, what we suppose to be higher-order neurones
are in a sense less selective in their responses than the cells which feed into
them. Cells with simple fields tend to respond only when the stimulus is
both oriented and positioned properly. In contrast, the neurones to which
they supposedly project are concerned predominantly with stimulus
orientation, and are far less critical in their requirements as regards
stimulus placement. Their responsiveness to the abstraction which we call
orientation is thus generalized over a considerable retinal area.

The significance of this step for perception can only be speculated upon,
but it may be of some interest to examine several possibilities. First,
neurophysiologists must ultimately try to explain how a form can be
recognized regardless of its exact position in the visual field. As a step in
form recognition the organism may devise a mechanism by which the
inclinations of borders are more important than their exact visual-field
location. It is clear that a given form in the visual field will, by virtue of
its borders, excite a combination of cells with complex fields. If we displace
the form it will activate many of the same cells, as long as the change in
position is not enough to remove it completely from their receptive fields.
Now we may imagine that these particular cells project to a single cell of
still higher order: such a cell will then be very likely to respond to the form
(provided the synapses are excitatory) and there will be considerable
latitude in the position of the retinal image. Such a mechanism will also
permit other transformations of the image, such as a change in size
associated with displacement of the form toward or away from the eye.
Assuming that there exist cells that are responsive to specific forms, it
would clearly be economical to avoid having thousands for each form, one
for every possible retinal position, and separate sets for each type of dis-
tortion of the image.

Next, the ability of some cells with complex fields to respond in a sus-
tained manner to a stimulus as it moves over a wide expanse of retina
suggests that these cells may play an important part in the perception of
movement. They adapt rapidly to a stationary form, and continuous move-
ment of the stimulus within the receptive field is the only way of obtaining
a sustained discharge (Text-fig. 4H). Presumably the afferent simple-
field cells also adapt rapidly to a stationary stimulus; because of their
staggered fields the moving stimulus excites them in turn, and the
higher-order cell is thus at all times bombarded. This seems an elegant
means of overcoming a difficulty inherent in the problem of movement

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
