CAT VISUAL CORTEX 113

The axis orientation of a field, for example, was given by the most effective
orientation of a moving slit or edge. If an optimally oriented slit pro-
duced a brief discharge on crossing from one region to another, one could
predict that the first region was inhibitory and the second excitatory.
Brief responses to crossing a very confined region were characteristic of
cells with simple cortical fields, whereas the complex cells to be described
below gave sustained responses ‘to movement over much wider areas.

Tas_e 1. Simple cortical fields

Text-fig. No. of cells
{a} Narrow concentrated centres
(i) Symmetrical flanks
Excitatory centres 20 23
Inhibitory centres 2D i7
{ii) Asymmetrical flanks
Excitatory centres _— 28
Inhibitory centres 2k 10
(6) Large centres; concentrated flanks 2F 21
(c) One excitatory region and one inhibitory 2@ 17
(d) Uncategorized — 117
Total number of simple fields 233

Movement was used extensively as a stimulus in experiments in which
the main object was to determine axis orientation and ocular dominance
for a large number of cells in a single penetration, and when it was not
practical, because of time limitations, to map out every field completely.
Because movement was generally a very powerlul stimulus, it was also
used in studying cells that gave little or no response to stationary patterns.
In all, 117 of the 233 simple cells were studied mainly by moving stimuli.
In Table I these have been kept separate from the other sroups since the
distribution of their excitatory and inhibitory regions is not known with
the same degree of certainty. It is also possible that with further study,
some of these fields would have revealed complex properties.

Complex receptive fields

Intermixed with cells having simple fields, and present in most penetra-
tions of the striate cortex, were cells with far more intricate and elaborate
properties. The receptive fields of these cells were termed “complex”
Unlike cells with simple fields, these responded to variously-shaped
stationary or moving forms in a way that could not be predicted from maps
made with small circular spots. Often such maps could not be made, since
small round spots were either ineffective or evoked only mixed (‘on-off’)
responses throughout the receptive field. When separate ‘on’ and ‘off’
Tegions could be discerned, the principles of summation and mutual
antagonism, so helpful in interpreting simple fields, did not generally hold.
Nevertheless, there were some important features common to the two

8 Physiol. 160

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
