CAT VISUAL CORTEX 121

the bar would also evoke brisker discharges than upward, provided the
upper flanking region were stronger than the lower one.

In describing simple fields it has already been noted that moving stimuli
were often more effective than stationary ones. This was also true of cells
with complex fields. Depending on the cell, slits, edges, or dark bars were
most effective. As with simple fields, orientation of a stimulus was always
critical, responses varied with rate of movement, and directional asym-
metries of the type seen in Text-fig. 8 were common. Only once have we
seen activation of a cell for one direction of movement and suppression of

—
—

GS2=2zS2

Text-fig. 8. Same cell as in Text-fig. 7. Movement of black rectangle 4 x 6° back
and forth across the receptive field: A, horizontally oriented (parallel to receptive-
field axis); B, vertically oriented, Time required to move across the field, 5 sec.
Time, 1 sec.

maintained firing for the opposite direction. In their responses to move-
ment, cells with complex fields differed from their simple counterparts chiefly
in responding with sustained firing over substantial regions, usually the
entire receptive field, instead of over a very narrow boundary separating
excitatory and inhibitory regions.

Receptive-field dimensions

Over-all field dimensions were measured for 119 cells. A cell was included
only if its field was mapped completely, and if it was situated in the area of
central vision (see p. 135). Fields varied greatly in size from one cell to the
next, even for cells recorded in a single penetration (see Text-fig. 15). In
Text-fig. 9 the distribution of cells according to field area is given separately
for simple and complex fields. The histogram illustrates the variation in size,
and shows that on the average complex fields were larger than simple ones.

Widths of the narrow subdivisions of simple fields (the centres of types
C, D and E or the flanks of type F, Text-fig. 2) also varied greatly: the
smallest were 10-15 minutes of arc, which is roughly the diameter of the
smallest field centres we have found for geniculate cells. For some cells

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
