CAT VISUAU CORTEX 107

the somatic sensory cortex of the cat and monkey in a remarkable series of
studies by Mountcastle (1957) and Powell & Mountcastle (1959). Their
results show that the approach is a powerful one, capable of revealing
systems of organization not hinted at by the known morphology. In
Part ITI of the present paper we use this method in studying the functional
architecture of the visual cortex. It helped us attempt to explain on
anatomical grounds how cortical receptive fields are built up.

METHODS

Recordings were made from forty acutely prepared cats, anaesthetized with thiopental
sodium, and maintained in light sleep with additional doses by observing the electro-
corticogram. Animals were paralysed with succinylcholine to stabilize the eyes. Pupils
were dilated with atropine. Details of stimulating and recording methods are given in
previous papers (Hubel, 1959; Hubel & Wiesel, 1959, 1960). The animal faced a wide
tangent screen at a distance of 1-5 m, and various patterns of white light were shone on
the screen by a tungsten-filament projector. All recordings were made in the light-
adapted state. Background iJlumination varied from —1-0 to +1-0 logy, cd/m*. Stimuli
were from 0-2 to-2-0 log. units brighter than the background. For each cell receptive fields
were mapped out separately for the two eyes on sheets of paper, and these were kept as
permanent records,

Points on the screen corresponding to the area, centralis and the optic disk of the two eyes
were determined by a projection method (Hubel & Wiesel, 1960). The position of each
receptive field was measured with respect to these points. Because of the muscle relaxant
the eyes usually diverged slightly, so that points corresponding to the two centres of gaze
were not necessarily superimposed. In stimulating the two eyes simultaneously it was
therefore often necessary to use two spots placed in corresponding parts of the two visual
fields. Moreover, at times the two eyes were slightly rotated in an inward direction in the
plane of their equators. This rotation was estimated by (1) photographing the cat before
and during the experiment, and comparing the angles of inclination of the slit-shaped pupils,
or (2) by noting the inclination to the horizontal of a line joining the area centralis with the
optic disk, which in the normal position of the eye was estimated, by the first method, to
average about 25°. The combined inward rotations of the two eyes seldom exceeded 10°.
Since the receptive fields in this study were usually centrally rather than peripherally placed
on the retina, the rotations did not lead to any appreciable linear displacement. Angular
displacements of receptive fields occasionally required correction, as they led to an apparent
difference in the orientation of the two receptive-field axes of a binocularly driven unit.
The direction and magnitude of this difference were always consistent with the estimated
inward rotation of the two eyes. Moreover, in a given experiment the difference was con-
stant, even though the axis orientation varied from cell to cell.

The diagram of Text-fig. 1 shows the points of entry into the cortex of all 45 micro-
electrode penetrations, Most electrode tracks went no deeper than 3 or 4mm, so that
explorations were mainly limited to the apical segments of the lateral and post-lateral gyri
(LG and PLG) and a few millimetres down along the adjoining medial and lateral folds. The
extent of the territory covered is indicated roughly by Text-figs. 13-15. Although the lateral
boundary of the striate cortex is not always sharply defined in Nissl-stained or myelin-
stained material, most penetrations were well within the region generally accepted as
‘striate’ (O'Leary, 1941). Most penetrations were made from the cortical region receiving
projections from in or near the area centralis; this cortical region is shown in Text-fig. 1 as
the area between the interrupted lines.

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
