134 D.H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

meridian of the retina, (No recordings were made from cortical regions
receiving projections from the deeply pigmented non-tapetal part of the
inferior retinas.) In several penetrations extending far down the mesial
(interhemispheric) segment of the lateral gyrus, receptive fields moved
further and further out into the ipsilateral haif of each retina as the elect-
rode advanced (Text-fig. 13). In these penetrations the movement of fields
into the retinal periphery occurred more and more rapidly as the electrode
advanced. In three penetrations extending far down the lateral segment
of the post-lateral gyrus (medial bank of the post-lateral sulcus) there was
likewise a clear progressive shift of receptive-field positions as the electrode
advanced. Here also the movement was along the horizontal meridian,
again into the ipsilateral halves of both retinas. This therefore confirms the
findimgs of Talbot & Marshall (1941) and Talbot (1942), that in each
hemisphere there is a second laterally placed representation of the contra-
lateral half-field of vision. The subject of Visual Area Ii will not be dealt
with further in this paper.

Cells within the large cortical region lying between the interrupted lines
of Text-fig. 1, and extending over on to the mesial segment and into the
lateral sulcus for a distance of 2-3 mm, had their receptive fields in the
area of central vision. By this we mean the area centralis, which is about
5° in diameter, and a region surrounding it by about 2-3°. The receptive
fields of the great majority of cells were confined to the ipsilateral halves
of the two retinas. Often a receptive field covering several degrees on the
retina stopped short in the area centralis right at the vertical meridian.
Only rarely did a receptive field appear to spill over into the contralateral
half-retina; when it did, it was only by 2-3°, a distance comparable to the
possible error in determining the area centralis in some cats.

Because of the large cortical representation of the area centralis, one
would expect only a very slow change in receptive-field position as the
electrode advanced obliquely (Text-fig. 13). Indeed, in penetrations
through the apex of the post-lateral gyrus and extending 1-2 mm down
either bank there was usually no detectable progressive displacement of
receptive fields. In penetrations made 1-3 mm apart, either along a para-
sagittal line or in the same coronal plane (Text-fig. 14) receptive fields
again had almost identical retinal positions.

Retinal representation of neighbouring cells. A question of some interest
was to determine whether this detailed topographic representation of the
retina held right down to the cellular level. From the results just described
one might imagine that receptive fields of neighbouring cortical cells
should have very nearly the same retinal position. In a sequence of cells
recorded in a normal penetration through the cortex the receptive fields
should be superimposed, and for oblique penetrations any detectable

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
