CAT VISUAL CORTEX 141

cells, specifically oriented lines and borders tend to replace circular spots
as the optimum stimuli, movement becomes an important parameter of
stimulation, diffuse light becomes virtually ineffective, and with adequate
stimuli most cells can be driven from the two eyes. Since lateral geniculate
¢ells supply the main, atid possibly the only, visual input to the striate
cortex, these differences must be the result of integrative mechanisms
within the striate cortex itself.

At present we have no direct evidence on how the cortex transforms the
incoming visual information. Ideally, one should determine the properties
of a cortical cell, and then examine one by one the receptive fields of all
the afferents projecting upon that cell. In the lateral geniculate, where one
ean, in effect, record simultaneously from a cell and one of its afferents, a
beginning has already been made in this direction (Hubel & Wiesel, 1961).
Ina structure as complex as the cortex the techniques available would seem
hopelessly inadequate for such an approach. Here we must rely on less
direct evidence to suggest possible mechanisms for explaining the trans-
formations that we find.

The relative lack of complexity of simple cortical receptive fields suggests
that these represent the first or at least a very early stage in the modi-
fication of geniculate signals. At any rate we have found no cells with
receptive fields intermediate in type between geniculate and simple cortical
fields. To account for the spatial arrangements of excitatory and inhibi-
tory regions of simple cortical fields we may imagine that upon each simple-
type cell there converge fibres of geniculate origin having ‘on’ or ‘off’
centres situated in the appropriate retinal regions. For example, a cortical
cell with a receptive field of the type shown in Text-fig. 2C might receive
projections from a group of lateral geniculate cells having ‘on’ field centres
distributed throughout the long narrow central region designated in the
figure by crosses. Such a projection system is shown in the diagram of
Text-fig. 19. A slit of light falling on this elongated central region would
activate all the geniculate cells, since for each cell the centre effect would
strongly outweigh the inhibition from the segments of field periphery
falling within the elongated region. This is the same as saying that a geni-
culate cell will respond to a slit with a width equal to the diameter of its
field centre, a fact that we have repeatedly verified. The inhibitory flanks
of the cortical field would be formed by the remaining outlying parts of the
geniculate-field peripheries. These flanks might be reinforced and enlarged
by appropriately placed “oit -centre geniculate cells. Such an increase in
the potency of the flanks would appear necessary to explain the relative
indifference of cortical cells to diffuse light.

The arrangement suggested by Text-fig. 19 would be consistent with our
impression that widths of cortical receptive-field centres (or flanks, m a

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
