CAT VISUAL CORTEX 145

for another. Each column contains thousands of cells, some cells having
simple fields and others complex. In the part of the cortex receiving
projections from the area centralis the receptive fields are smaller, and
presumably more columns are required for unit area of retina; hence in
central retinal regions the cortical projection is disproportionately large.

Complex receptive fields

The method of stimulating the retina with small circular spots of light
and recording from single visual cells has been a useful one in studies of the
cat’s visual system. In the pathway from retina to cortex the excitatory
and inhibitory areas mapped out by this means have been sufficient to
account for responses to both stationary and moving patterns. Only when
one reaches cortical cells with complex fields does the method fail, for these
fields cannot generally be separated into excitatory and inhibitory regions.
Instead of the direct small-spot method, one must resort to a trial-and-
error system, and attempt to describe each cell in terms of the stimuli that
most effectively influence firing. Here there is a risk of Over- or under-
estimating the complexity of the most effective stimuli, with corresponding
lack of precision in the functional description of the cell. For this reason it
is encouraging to find that the properties of complex fields can be inter-
preted by the simple supposition that they receive projections from simple-
field cells, a supposition made more likely by the anatomical findings of
Part TIT.

Compared with cells in the retina or lateral geniculate body, cortical cells
show a marked increase in the number of stimulus parameters that must be
Specified in order to influence their firing. This apparently reflects a con-
tinuing process which has its beginning in the retina. To obtain an optimum
response from @ retinal ganglion Cell it is generally sufficient to specity
the position, size and intensity of a circular spot. Enlarging the spot
beyond the size of the field centre raises the threshold, but even when
diffuse light is used it is possible to evoke a brisk response by using an.
intense enough stimulus. Por geniculate cells the penalty for exceeding
optimum spot size is more severe than in the retina, as has been shown by
comparing responses of a geniculate cell and an afferent fibre to the same
cell (Hubel & Wiesel, 1961). In the retina and lateral geniculate body there
is no evidence that any shapes are more effective than circular ones, or
that, with moving stimuli, one direction of movement is better than
another.

In contrast, in the cortex effective driving of simple-field cells can only
be obtained with restricted stimuli whose position, shape and orientation
are specific for the cell. Some cells fire best to a moving stimulus, and in
these the direction and even the rate of movement are often critical.

10 Physiol. 160

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
