112 DH. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

areas that were far from equal; the centre portion was small and concen-
trated whereas the flanks were widely dispersed. A similar inequality was
found in fields of type F, Text-fig. 2, but here the excitatory flanks were
elongated and concentrated, while the centre was relatively large and
diffuse. The optimum response was evoked by simultaneously illuminating
the two flanks with two parallel slits (see Hubel & Wiesel, 1959, Vig. 9).

Some cells had fields in which only two regions were discernible, arranged
side by side as in Text-fig. 2G. For these cells the most efficient stationary
stimulus consisted of two areas of differing brightness placed so that the
line separating them fell exactly over the boundary between the excitatory
and inhibitory parts of the field. This type of stimulus was termed an
‘edge. An on’ or an off response was evoked depending on whether the
bright part of the stimulus fell over the excitatory or the inhibitory region.
A slight change in position or orientation of the line separating the light
from the dark area was usually enough to reduce greatly the effectiveness
of the stimulus.

Moving stimuli were very effective, probably because of the synergistic
effects of leaving an inhibitory area and simultaneously entering an
excitatory area (Hubel & Wiesel, 1959). The optimum stimulus could usually
be predicted from the distribution of excitatory and inhibitory regions of
the receptive field. With moving stimuli, just as with stationary, the
Orientation was critical, In contrast, a slit or edge moved across the
circularly symmetric field of a geniculate cell gave (as one would expect)
roughly the same response regardless of the stimulus orientation. The
responses evoked when an optimally oriented slit crossed back and forth
over a cortical receptive field were often roughly equal for the two direc-
tions of crossing. This was true of fields like those shown in Text-fig. 2C,
D and F. For many cells, however, the responses to two diametrically
opposite movements were different, and some only responded to one of the
two movements. The inequalities could usually be accounted for by an
asymmetry in flanking regions, of the type shown in Text-fig. 2 (see also
Hubel & Wiesel, 1959, Fig. 7). In fields that had only two discernible
Tegions arranged side by side (Text-fic. 2G), the difference in the responses
to a moving slit or edge was especially pronounced.

Optimum rates of movement varied from one cell to another. On
several occasions two cells were recorded together, one of which responded
only to a slow-moving stimulus (1°/sec or lower) the other to a rapid one
(10°/sec or more). For cells with fields of type F, Text-fig. 2, the time
elapsing between the two discharges to a moving stimulus was a measure
of the rate of movement (see Hubel & Wiesel, 1959, Fig. 5).

If responses to movement were predictable from arrangements of
excitatory and inhibitory regions, the reverse was to some extent also true.

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
