CAT VISUAL CORTEX 125

The threshold of this-‘third unit was apparently so high that, at least under
these experimental conditions, stimulation of either eye alone failed to
evoke any response.

Asecond example of synergy is seen in Text-fig. 11. The most effective
stimulus was a vertically oriented rectangle moved across the receptive
field from left to right. Here the use of both eyes not only enhanced the
response already observed with a single eye, but brought into the open
a tendency that was formerly unsuspected. Each eye mediated a weak

™ N

Text-fig. 10. Examples of binocular synergy in 4 simultaneous recording of three
cells (spikes of the three cells are labelled 1-3). Each of the cells had receptive fields
in the two eyes; in each eye the three fields overlapped and were situated 2° below
and to the left of the area centralis. The crosses to the left of each record indicate
the positions of the receptive fields in the two eyes. The stimulus was 4 x 2° slit
oriented obliquely and moved slowly across the receptive fields as shown; A, in
the left eye; B, in the right eye; C, in the two eyes simultaneously. Since the
responses in the two eyes were about equally strong, these two cells were classed
in ocular-dominance group 4 (see Text-fig. 12). Time, 1 sec.

response (Text-fig. 11.4, B) which was greatly strengthened when both
eyes were used in parallel (C). Now, in addition, the cell gave a weak
response to leftward movement, indicating that this had an excitatory
effect rather than an inhibitory one. Binocular synergy was often
a useful means of bringing out additional information about a receptive
field.

In our previous study of forty-five cortical cells (Hubel & Wiesel, 1959)
there was clear evidence of convergence of influences from the two eyes in
only one fifth of the cells. In the present series 84% of the cells fell into
this category. The difference is undoubtedly related to the improved pre-
cision in technique of binocular stimulation. A field was first mapped in
the dominant eye and the most effective type of stimulus determined.
That stimulus was then applied in the corresponding region in the other

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
