130 D. H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

present study were the receptive-field axis orientation, position of receptive
fields on the retina, receptive-field organization, and relative ocular
dominance. These will be described separately in the following paragraphs.

Orientation of recepiive-field axis

The orientation of @ receptive-field axis was determined in several ways.
When the field was simple the borders between excitatory and inhibitory
regions were sufficient to establish the axis directly. For both simple and
complex fields the axis could always be determined from the orientation
of the most effective stimulus. For most fields, when the slit or edge was
placed at right angles to the optimum position there was no response. The
receptive-field axis orientation was checked by varying the stimulus
Orientation from this null position im order to find the two orientations at
which a response was only just elicited, and by bisecting the angie hetween
them. By one or other of these procedures the receptive field orientation
could usually be determined to within 5 or 10°

One of the first indications that the orientation of a receptive-field axis
Was an important variable came from multiple recordings. Invariably the
axes Of receptive fields mapped together had the same orientations. An
example of a 3-unit recording has already been given in Text-fig. 10.
Cells with common axis orientation were therefore not scattered at random
through the cortex, but tended to be grouped together. The size and shape
of the regions containing these cell groups were investigated by comparing
the fields of cells mapped in sequence. It was at once apparent that suc-
cessively recorded cells also tended to have identical axis orientations and
that each penetration consisted of several sequences of cells, each sequence.
having a common axis orientation. Any undifferentiated units in the
background responded best to the stimulus orientation that was most
effective in activating the cell under study. After traversing a distance
that varied greatly from one penetration to the next, the electrode would
enter ai area where there was no longer any single optimum orientation
for driving background activity. A very slight advance of the electrode.
would bring it into a region where a new orientation was the most effective,
and the succeeding cells would all have receptive fields with that orienta-
tion. The change in angle from one region to another was unpredictable;
sometimes it was barely detectable, at other times large (45-90°).

Text-figure 13 shows a camera lucida tracing of a frontal section through
the post-lateral gyrus. The electrode track entered normal to the surface,
passed through the apical segment in a direction parallel to the fibre bundles,
then through the white matter beneath, and finally obliquely through half’
the thickness of the mesial segment. A lesion was made at the termination
of the penetration. A composite photomicrograph (Pl. 1) shows the lesion.

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
