108 D. H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

Tungsten micro-electrodés were advanced by a hydraulic micro-electrode positioner
(Hubel, 1957, 1959). In searching for single cortical units the retina was continually stimu-
lated with stationary and moving forms while the electrode was advanced. The unresolved
background activity (see p. 129) served as a guide for determining the optimum stimulus.
This procedure increased the number of cells observed in a penetration, since the sampling
was not limited to spontaneously active units.

In each penetration electrolytic lesions were made at one or more points. When only one
lesion was made, it was generally at the end of an electrode track. Brains were fixed in 10%
formalin, embedded in celloidin, sectioned at 20 », and stained with cresyl violet. Lesions
were 50-100 » in diameter, which was small enough to indicate the position of the electrode
tip to the nearest cortical layer. The positions of other units encountered in a cortical pene-
tration were determined by calculating the distance back from the lesion along the track,

Text-fig. 1. Diagram of dorsal aspect of cat’s brain, to show entry points of 45
micro-electrode penetrations. The penetrations between the interrupted lines are
those in which cells had their receptive fields in or near area. centralis. LG, lateral
gyrus; PLG, post-lateral gyrus. Scale, 1 cm.

using depth readings corresponding to the unit and the lesion. A correction was made for
brain shrinkage, which was estimated by comparing the distance between two lesions,
measured under the microscope, with the distance calculated from depths at which the two
lesions were made. From brain to brain this shrinkage was not constant, so that it was not
possible to apply an average correction for shrinkage to all brains. For tracks marked by
only one lesion it was assumed that the first unit activity was recorded at the boundary of
the first and second layers; any error resulting from this was probably small, since in a number
of penetrations a lesion was made at the point where the first units were encountered, and
these were in the lower first or the upper second layers, or else at the very boundary. The
absence of cell-body records and unresolved background activity as the electrode passed
through subcortical white matter (see Text-fig. 13 and Pl. 1) was also helpful in confirming
the accuracy of the track reconstructions.

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
