106 J. Physiol. (1962), 160, pp. 106-154
With 2 plates and 20 text-figures
Printed in Great Britain

RECEPTIVE FIELDS, BINOCULAR INTERACTION
AND FUNCTIONAL ARCHITECTURE IN
THE CAT’S VISUAL CORTEX

By D. H. HUBEL anp T. N. WIESEL

From the Neurophysiolojy Laboratory, Department of Pharmacology
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetis, U.S.A.

(Received 31 July 1961)

What chiefly distinguishes cerebral cortex from other parts of the
central nervous system is the great diversity of its cell types and inter-
connexions. It would be astonishing if such a structure did not profoundly
modify the response patterns of fibres coming into it. In the cat’s visual
cortex, the receptive field arrangements of single cells suggest that there is
indeed a degree of complexity far exceeding anything yet seen at lower
levels in the visual system.

in % previous paper we described receptive fields of single cortical cells,
observing responses to spots of light shone on one or both retinas (Hubel
& Wiesel, 1959). In the present work this method is used to examine
receptive fields of a more complex type (Part I) and to make additional
Observations on binocular interaction (Part II).

This approach is necessary in order to understand the behaviour of
individual cells, but it fails to deal with the problem of the relationship
of one cell to its neighbours. In the past, the technique of recording
evoked slow waves has been used with great success in studies of
functional anatomy. It was employed by Talbot & Marshall (1941) and
by Thompson, Woolsey & Talbot (1950) for mapping out the visual cortex
in the rabbit, cat, and monkey. Daniel & Whitteridge (1959) have recently
extended this work in the primate. Most of our present knowledge of
retinotopic projections, binocular overlap, and the second visual area is
based on these investigations. Yet the method of evoked potentials is
valuable mainly for detecting behaviour common to large populations of
neighbouring cells; it cannot differentiate functionally between areas of
cortex smaller than about 1 mm?*. Po overcome this difticulty a method has
in recent years been developed for studying cells separately or in small
groups during long micro-electrode penetrations through nervous tissue.
Responses are correlated with cell location by reconstructing the electrode
tracks from histological material. These techniques have been applied to

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
