124 D.H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

evidence rests largely on the observation that cells in all three lateral
geniculate layers degenerate following a localized lesion in the striate area
(Minkowski, 1913). Physiological confirmation was obtained by Talbot &
Marshall (1941) who stimulated the visual fields of the separate eyes with
small spots of light, and mapped the evoked cortical slow waves. Still
unsettled, however, was the question of whether individual cortical cells
Teceive projections from both eyes, or whether the cortex contains a
mixture of cells, some activated by one eye, some by the other. We have
recently shown that many cells in the visual cortex can be influenced by
both eyes (Hubel & Wiesel, 1959). The present section contains further
observations on binocular interaction. We have been particularly interested
in learning whether the eyes work in synergy or in opposition, how the
relative influence of the two eyes varies from cell to cell) and whether,
on the average, one eye exerts more influence than the other on the cells
of a given hemisphere.

RESULTS

In agreement with previous findings (Hubel & Wiesel, 1959) the recep-
tive fields of all binoeularly Influenced cortical cells occupied corresponding.
positions on the two retinas, and were strikingly similar in their organiza-
tion. For simple fields the spatial arrangements of excitatory and in-
hibitory regions were the same; for complex fields the stimuli that excited
Or inhibited the cell through one eye had similar effects through the other.
Axis orientations of the two receptive fields were the same. Indeed, the
only differences ever seen between the two fields were related to eye
dominance: identical stimuli to the two eyes did not necessarily evoke
equally strong responses from a given cell. For some cells the responses
were equal or almost so; for others one eye tended to dominate. When-
ever the two retinas were stimulated in identical fashion in corresponding
regions, their effects summed, i.e. they worked in synergy. On the other
hand, if antagonistic regions in the two eyes were stimulated so that one
eye had an excitatory effect and the other an inhibitory one, then the
Tesponses tended to cancel (Hubel & Wiesel, 1959, Hig. 104).

Some units did not respond to stimulation of either eye alone but could
be activated only by simultaneous stimulation of the two eyes. Text-figure
10 shows an example of this, and also illustrates ordinary binocular synergy.
Two simultaneously recorded cells both responded best to transverse move-
ment of a rectangle oriented in a 1 o’clock-7 o’clock direction (Text-fig.
10.A, B). For one of the cells movement down and to the right was more
effective than movement up and to the left. Responses from the individual
eyes were roughly equal. On simultaneous stimulation of the two eyes both
units responded much more vigorously. Now a third cell was also activated.

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
