CAT VISUAL CORTEX 109

PART I

ORGANIZATION OF RECEPTIVE FIELDS IN CAT’S
VISUAL CORTEX: PROPERTIES OF ‘SIMPLE’
AND ‘COMPLEX’ FIELDS

The receptive field of a cell in the visual system may be defined as the
Tegion of retina (or visual field) over which one can influence the firing of
that cell. In the cat's retina one can distinguish two types of ganglion
cells, those with ‘on’-centre receptive fields and those with ‘off’-centre
fields (Kufiler, 1953). The lateral geniculate body also has cells of these two
types; so far no others have been found (Hubel & Wiesel, 1961). In con-
trast, the visual cortex contains a large number of functionally different
cell types; yet with the exception of afferent fibres from the lateral
geniculate body we have found no units with concentric ‘on’-centre or
“ott -centre fields.

When stimulated with stationary or moving patterns of light, cells in
the visual cortex gave responses that could be interpreted in terms of the
arrangements of excitatory and inhibitory regions in their receptive fields
(Hubel & Wiesel, 1959). Not all cells behaved so simply, however; some
responded in a complex manner which bore little obvious relationship to
the receptive fields mapped with small spots. It has become increasingly
apparent to us that cortical cells differ in the complexity of their receptive
fields. The great majority of fields seem to fall naturally into two groups,
which we have termed ‘simple’ and ‘complex’. Although the fields to
be described represent the commonest subtypes of these groups, new
varieties are continually appearing, and it is unlikely that the ones we
have listed give anything like a complete picture of the striate cortex.
We have therefore avoided a rigid system of classification, and have
designated receptive fields by letters or numbers only for convenience in
referring to the figures. We shall concentrate especially on features
common to simple fields and on those common to complex fields,
emphasizing differences between the two sroups, and also between cortical
fields and lateral geniculate fields:

RESULTS
Simple receptive fields
The receptive fields of 233 of the 303 cortical cells in the present series
were classified as ‘simple’. Like retinal ganglion and geniculate cells,
cortical cells with simple fields possessed distinct excitatory and inhibi-
tory subdivisions. Illumimation of part or all of an excitatory region im-
creased the maintained firing of the cell, whereas a light shone in the

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
