148 DH. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

accordime to angle of orientation shows that there is no clear prevalence
of one group over any of the others.) In the somatosensory cortex, on the
other hand, there are only two recognized types of column.

A second major difference between the two systems lies in the very
nature of the criteria used for the subdivisions. The somatosensory cortex is
divided by submodality, a characteristic depending on the incoming
Sensory fibres, and not on any transformations made by the cortex on the
afferent impulses. Indeed we have as yet little information on what integra-
tive processes do take place im the somatosensory cortex. In the visual
cortex there is no modality difference between the input to one column
and that to the next, but it is in the connexions between afferents and
cortical cells, or in the interconnexions between cortical cells, that the
differences must exist.

Ultimately, however, the two regions of the cortex may not prove so
dissimilar. Further information on the functional role of the somatic cortex
may conceivably bring to light a second system of columns, superimposed
on the present one. Similarly, in the visual system future work may disclose
other subdivisions cutting across those described in this paper, and based on
other criteria. For the present it would seem unwise to look upon the
columns in the visual cortex as entirely autonomous functional units:
Whiie the variation in field size from cell to cell within a column is generally
Of the sort suggested in Text-tigs. 9 and 15, the presence of an occasional
cell with @ very large complex field (up to about 20°) makes one wonder
whether columns with similar receptive-field orientations may not possess
some interconnexions.

Binocular interaction

The presence in the striate cortex of cells influenced from both eyes has
already been observed by several authors (Hubel & Wiesel, 1959; Cornelis
& Griisser, 1959; Burns, Heron & Grafstein, 1960), and is confirmed in
Part II of this paper. Our results suggest that the convergence of in-
fluences from the two eyes is extensive, since binocular effects could be
demonstrated in 84% of our cells, and since the two eyes were equally, or
almost equally, effective in 70% (groups 3-5). This represents a much
Greater degree Of interaction than was suggested by our original work, or
by Griisser and Griisser-Cornehls (see Jung, 1960), who found that only
30 % of their cells were binocularly influenced.

For each of our cells comparison of receptive fields mapped in the two
eyes showed that, except for a difference in strength of responses related
to eye dominance, the fields were in every way similar. They were similarly
organized, had the same axis orientation, and occupied corresponding
regions in the two retinas. The responses to stimuli applied to corre-
sponding parts of the two receptive fields showed summation. This should

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
