144 D.H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

centres it covered. It is true that at the same time a number of other cells
would have small parts of their peripheral fields stimulated, but we may
perhaps assume that these opposing effects would be relatively weak. For
orientations other than horizontal a slit would have little or no effect on
the simple cells, and would therefore not activate the complex one. Small
spots should give only feeble ‘on’ responses regardless of where they were
shone in the field. Enlarging the spots would not produce summation of
the responses unless the enlargement were in a horizontal direction; any-
thing else would result in invasion of opposing parts of the antecedent
fields, and cancellation of the responses from the corresponding cells. The
model would therefore seem to account for many of the observed properties
of complex fields.

Proposals such as those of Text-figs. 19 and 20 are obviously tentative
and should not be interpreted literally. It does, at least, seem probable
that simple receptive fields represent an early stage in cortical integration,
and the complex ones a later stage. Regardless of the details of the process,
it is also likely that a complex field is built up from simpler ones with
common 4xis Orientations.

At first sight it would seem necessary to imagine a highly intricate tangle
Of interconnexions in order to link cells with common axis orientations
while keeping those with different orientations functionally separated.
But if we turn to the results of Part II] on functional cytoarchitecture we
see at once that gathered together in discrete columns are the very cells
we require to be interconnected in our scheme. The cells of each aggregate
have common axis orientations and the staggering in the positions of the
simple fields is roughly what is required to account for the size of most ot the
complex fields (cf. Text-fig. 9). That these cells are interconnected is more-
over very likely on histological grounds: indeed, the particular richness of
radial connexions in the cortex fits well with the columnar shape of the
regions.

The otherwise puzzling ageresation of cells with common axis orienta-
tion now takes on new meaning. We may tentatively look upon each
column as a functional unit of cortex, within which simple fields are
elaborated and then in turn synthesized into complex fields. The large
variety of simple and complex fields to be found in a single column (Text-
fig. 15) suggests that the connexions between cells in a column are highly
specific.

We may now begin to appreciate the significance of the great increase
in the number of cells in the striate cortex, compared with the lateral
geniculate body. In the cortex there is an enormous digestion of informa-
tion, with each smali region of visual field represented over and over again
in column after column, first for one receptive-field orientation and then

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
