CAT VISUAL CORTEX 123

movement. A few even required stimulation of both eyes before a response
could be elicited (see Part II). But there is no indication from our studies
that the striate cortex contains nerve cells that are unresponsive to visual
stimuli,

Most of the cells of this series were observed for 1 or 2 hr, and some were
studied for up to 9 hr. Over these periods of time there were no qualitative
changes in the characteristics of receptive fields: their complexity, arrange-
ments of excitatory and inhibitory areas, axis orientation and position all
remained the same, as did the ocular dominance. With deepening anaes-
thesia a cell became less responsive, so that stimuli that had formerly been
weak tended to become even weaker or ineffective, while those that had
evoked brisk responses now evoked only weak ones. The last thing to
disappear with very deep anaesthesia was usually the response to a moving
form. As long as any responses remained the cell retained the same specific
requirements as to stimulus form, orientation and rate of movement,
suggesting that however the drug exerted its effects, it did not to any
important extent functionally disrupt the specific visual connexions. A
comparison of visual responses in the anaesthetized animal with those in
the unanaesthetized, unrestrained preparation (Hubel, 1959) shows that
the main differences lie in the frequency and firing patterns of the main-
tained activity and in the vigour of responses, rather than in the basic
receptive-field organization. It should be emphasized, however, that
even in light anaesthesia or in the attentive state diffuse light remains
relatively ineffective; thus the balance between excitatory and inhibitory
influences is apparently maintained in the waking state.

PART II

BINOCULAR INTERACTION AND OCULAR DOMINANCE

Recording from single cells at various levels in the visual system offers a
direct means of determining the site of convergence of impulses from the
two eyes. In the lateral geniculate body, the first point at which con-
vergence is at all likely, binocularly influenced cells have been observed,
but it would seem that these constitute at most a small minority of the
total population of geniculate cells (Hrulkar & Villenz, 1958, 1960;
Bishop, Burke & Davis, 1959; Griisser & Sauer, 1960; Hubel & Wiesel,
1961). Silver-degeneration studies show that in each layer of the geni-
culate the terminals of fibres from a single eye are grouped together, with
only minor overlap in the interlaminar regions (Silva, 1956; Hayhow, 1958).
The anatomical and physiological findings are thus in good agreement,

It has Jong been recognized that the greater part of the cat's primary
visual cortex receives projections from the two eyes. The anatomical

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
