CAT VISUAL CORTEX 129

delineating regions of constant physiological characteristics depends on
the possibility of examining a number of units as the electrode passes
through each region. Regions may escape detection if they are so small
that the electrode is able to resolve only one or two cells in each. The fewer
the cells resolved, the larger the regions must be in order to be detected at
all.

(2) Unresolved background activity. To some extent the spaces between
isolated units were bridged by studying unresolved background activity
audible over the monitor as a crackling noise, and assumed to originate
largely from action potentials of a number of cells. It was concluded that
cells, rather than fibres, gave rise to this activity, since it ceased abruptly
when the electrode left the grey matter and entered subcortical white matter.
Furthermore, diffuse light evoked no change in activity, compared to the
marked increase caused by an optimally oriented slit. This suggested that
terminal arborizations of afferent fibres contributed little to the back-
ground, since most geniculate cells respond actively to diffuse light (Hubel,
1960). In most penetrations unresolved background activity was present
continuously as the electrode passed through layers 2-6 of the cortical
grey matter.

Background activity had many uses. It indicated when the cells within
range of the electrode tip had a common receptive-field axis orientation.
Similarly, one could use it to tell whether the cells in the neighbourhood
were driven exclusively by one eye (group 1 or group 7). When the back-
ground activity was influenced by both eyes, one could not distinguish
between a mixture of ceils belonging to the two monocular groups (1 and 7)
and a population in which each cell was driven from both eyes: But even
here one could at least assess the relative influence of the two eyes upon
the group of cells in the immediate neighbourhood of the electrode.

(3) Militple recordings. In the series of 303 cells, 78 were recorded in
groups of two and 12 in groups of three. Records were not regarded as
multiple unless the spikes of the different cells showed distinct differences
in amplitude, and unless each unit fulfilled the criteria required of a single-
unit record, namely that the amplitude and wave shape be relatively con-
stant for a given electrode position.

In such multiple recordings one could be confident that the cells were
close neighbours and that uniform stimulus conditions prevailed, since the
cells could be stimulated and observed together. One thus avoided some
of the difficulties in evaluating a succession of recordings made over a long
period of time span, where absolute constancy of eye position, anaesthetic
level, and preparation condition were sometimes hard to guarantee.

Regional variations of several physiological characteristics were ex-
amined by the three methods just outlined. Of particular interest for the

9 Physiol. 160

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
