150 D. H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

level from retina to cortex. We have not, for example, seen ‘erasible’
responses or found ‘convex edge detectors’. On the other hand, it seems
that some cells in the frog have asymmetrical responses to movement and
some have what we have termed a ‘receptive-field axis’.

Assuming that the units described in the frog are fibres from retinal
ganglion cells, one may ask whether similar fibres exist in the cat, but have
been missed. because of their small size. We lack exact information on the
fibre spectrum of the cat’s optic nerve; the composite action potential
suggests that non-myelinated fibres are present, though in smaller numbers
than in the frog (Bishop, 1933; Bishop & O’Leary, 1940). If their fields are
different from the well known concentric type, they must have little part
to play in the geniculo-cortical pathway, since geniculate cells all appear
to have concentric-type fields (Hubel & Wiesel, 1961). The principal cells
of the lateral geniculate body (those that send their axons to the striate
cortex) are of fairly uniform size, and it seems unlikely that a large group
would have gone undetected. The smallest fibres in the cat's optic nerve
probably project to the tectum or the pretectal region; in view of the work
in the frog, it will be interesting to examine their receptive fields.

At first glance it may seem astonishing that the complexity of third-
order neurones in the frog’s visual system should be equalled only by that
of sixth-order neurones in the geniculo-cortical pathway of the cat. Yet
this is less surprising if one notes the great anatomical differences in the
two animals, especially the lack, in the frog, of any cortex or dorsal lateral
geniculate body. There is undoubtedly a parallel difference in the use each
animal makes of its visual system: the frog’s visual apparatus is pre-
sumably specialized to recognize a limited number of stereotyped patterns
or situations, compared with the high acuity and versatility found in the
cat. Probably it is not so unreasonable to find that in the cat the specializa-
tion of cells for complex operations is postponed to a higher level, and that
when it does occur, it is carried out by a vast number of cells, and in great
detail. Perhaps even more surprising, in view of what seem to be profound
physiological differences, is the superficial anatomical similarity of retinas
in the cat and the frog. It is possible that with Golgi methods a comparison
of the connexions between cells in the two animals may help us in under-
standing the physiology of both structures.

Receptive fields of cells in the primate cortex
We have been anxious to learn whether receptive fields of cells in the
monkey’s visual cortex have properties similar to those we have described
in the cat. A few preliminary experiments on the spider monkey have
shown striking similarities. For example, both simple and complex fields
have been observed in the striate area. Future work will very likely show

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
