CAT VISUAL CORTEX 115

positioning within the 3°-diameter receptive field was not critical. When it
was shone anywhere above the centre of the receptive field (the horizontal
line of Text-fig. 3) an ‘off’ response was obtained; ‘on’ responses were
evoked throughout the lower half. In an intermediate position (Text-fig:
3C) the cell responded at both ‘on’ and ‘off’. From experience with
simpler receptive fields one might have expected wider slits to give in-
creasingly better responses owing to summation within the upper or lower
part of the field, and that illumination of either half by itself might be the
most effective stimulus of all. The result was just the opposite: responses
fell off rapidly as the stiznulus was widened beyond about 4°, and large
Tectangles covering the entire lower or upper halves of the receptive field
were quite ineffective (Text-fig. 3F, G). On the other hand, summation
could easily be demonstrated in a horizontal direction, since a slit 4° wide
but extending only across part of the field was less effective than a longer
one covering the entire width. One might also have expected the orienta-
tion of the slit to be unimportant as long as the stimulus was wholly con-
fined to the region above the horizontal line or the region below. On the
contrary, the orientation was critical, since a tilt of even a few degrees from
the horizontal markedly reduced the response, even though the slit did not
cross the boundary separating the upper and lower halves of the field.

In preferring a slit specific in width and orientation this cell resembled
certain cells with simple fields. When stimulated in the upper part of its
field it behaved in many respects like cells with ‘off’-centre fields of type
D, Text-fig. 2; in the lower part it responded like ‘on’-centre fields of
Text-fig. 2C. But for this cell the strict requirements for shape and
Orientation of the stimulus were in marked contrast to the relatively large
leeway of the stimulus in its ordinate position on the retina. Cells with
simple fields, on the other hand, showed very little latitude in the
positioning of an optimally oriented stimulus.

The upper part of this receptive field may be considered inhibitory and
the lower part excitatory, even though in either area summation only
oceurred in a horizontal direction. Such subdivisions were occasionally
found in complex fields, but more often the fields were uniform in this
respect. This was true for the other complex fields to be described in
this section.

Responses of a second complex unit are shown in Text-fig. 4. In many
ways the receptive field of this cell was similar to the one just described.
A slit was the most potent stimulus, and the most effective width was
again 4°. Once more the orientation was an important stimulus variable,
since the slit was effective anywhere in the field as long as it was placed
in a 100’clock-4 o’clock orientation (Text-fig. 44—D). A change in
orientation of more than 5-10° in either direction produced a marked

8-2

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
