152 D. H. HUBEL AND T.N. WIESEL

with complex fields responding to slits or dark bars the optimum stimulus
width was also usually of this order of magnitude.

6. Four fifths of all cells were influenced independently by the two eyes.
In a binocularly influenced cell the two receptive fields had the same
organization and axis orientation, and were situated in corresponding parts
of the two retinas. Summation was seen when corresponding parts of the
two retinas were stimulated in identical fashion. The relative influence of
the two eyes differed from cell to cell: for some cells the two eyes were
about equal; in others one eye, the ipsilateral or contralateral, dominated.

7. Functional architecture was studied by (a) comparing the responses
of cells recorded in sequence during micro-electrode penetrations through
the cortex, (6) observing the unresolved background activity, and (¢) com-
paring cells recorded simultaneously with a single electrode (multiple
recordings). The retinas were found to project upon the cortex in an orderly
fashion, as described by previous authors. Most recordings were made
from the cortical region receiving projections from the area of central
vision. The cortex was found to be divisible into discrete columns; within
each column the cells all had the same receptive field axis orientation. The
columns appeared to extend from surface to white matter; cross-sectional
diameters at the surface were of the order of 0-5 mm. Within a given
column one found various types of simple and complex fields; these were
situated in the same general retinal region, and usually overlapped,
although they differed slightly in their exact retinal position. The relative
influence of the two eyes was not necessarily the same for all cells in a
column.

8. It is suggested that columns containing cells with common receptive-
field axis orientations are functional units, in which cells with simple fields
represent an early stage in organization, possibly receiving their afferents
directly from lateral geniculate cells, and cells with complex fields are of
higher order, receiving projections irom a number of cells with simple
fields within the same column. Some possible implications of these
findings for form perception are discussed.

We wish to thank Miss Jaye Robinson and Mrs Jane Chen for their technical assistance.
We are also indebted to Miss Sally Fox and to Dr 8. W. Kuffler for their helpful criticism of
this manuscript. The work was supported in part by Research Grants B-2251 and B-2260
from United States Public Health Service, and in part by the United States Air Force through
the Air Force Office of Scientific Research of the Air Research and Development Command

under contract No. AF 49 (638)-713. The work was done during the tenure of a U.S. Public
Health Service Senior Research Fellowship No. SF 304-R by D.H.H.

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
