CAT VISUAL CORTEX 133

In the lateral track there were nine orientations. From the beginning this
track was more ovlique, and it became increasingly so as it progressed.

As illustrated by the examples of Text-figs. 13 and 14, there was a
marked tendency for shifts in orientation to increase in frequency as the
angle between electrode and direction of fibre bundles (or apical dendrites)
became greater. The extreme curvature of the lateral and post-lateral gyri
in their apical segments made normal penetrations very difficult to obtain ;
nevertheless, four penetrations were normal or almost so. In none of these
were there any shifts of axis orientation. On the other hand there were
several shifts of field orientation in all oblique penetrations. As illustrated
by Text-fig. 14, most penetrations that began nearly normal to the surface
became more and more oblique with increasing depth. Here the distance
traversed by the electrode without shifts in receptive-field orientation
tended to become less and less as the penetration advanced.

It can be concluded that the striate cortex is divided into discrete
regions within which the cells have a common receptive-field axis orienta-
tion. Some of the regions extend from the surface of the cortex to the white
matter; it is difficult to be certain whether they all do. Some idea of
their shapes may be obtained by measuring distances between shifts in
receptive-field orientation. From these measurements it seems likely that
the general shape is columnar, distorted no doubt by any curvature of
the gyrus, which would tend to make the end at the surface broader than
that at the white matter; deep in a sulcus the effect would be the reverse.
The cross-sectional size and shape of the columns at the surface can be
estimated only roughly. Most of our information concerns their width in
the coronal plane, since it is in this plane that oblique penetrations were
made. At the surface this width is probably of the order of 0-5 mm. We
have very little information about the cross-sectional dimension in a
direction parallel to the long axis of the gyrus. Preliminary mapping of
the cortical surface suggests that the cross-sectional shape of the columns
may be very irregular.

Position of receptive fields on the retina

Gross topography. That there is a systematic representation of the retina
on the striate cortex of the cat was established anatomically by Minkowski
(1913) and with physiological methods by Talbot & Marshall (1941).
Although in the present study no attempt has been made to map topo-
graphically all parts of the striate cortex, the few penetrations made in
cortical areas representing peripheral parts of the retina confirm these
findings. Cells recorded in front of the anterior interrupted lines of Text-
fig. 1 had receptive fields in the superior retinas; those in the one penetra-
tion behind the posterior line had fields that were well below the horizontal

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
