138 D.H. HUBEL AND T.N, WIESEL

in Text-fig. 16, these cells gave opposite-type responses, one inhibitory and
the other excitatory. Some cell pairs responded reciprocally to to-and-fro
movements of a slit or edge. Examples have been given elsewhere (Hubel,
1958, Fig. 9; 1959, Text-fig. 6). The fields of these cell pairs usually differed
only in the balance of the asymmetrical flanking regions.

Text-fig. 17. Records of two simultaneously observed cells which responded reci-
procally to stationary stimuli. The two receptive fields are shown to the right, and
are superimposed, though they are drawn separately. The cell corresponding to
each field is indicated by the spikes to the right of the diagram. To the left of each
record is shown the position of a slit, + x 24°, with respect to these fields.

Both cells binocularly driven (dominance group 3); fields mapped in the left
(contralateral) eye; position of fields 2° below and to the left of the area centralis.
Time, 1 sec.

Relationship between receptive field organization and cortical layering. In
a typical penetration through the cortex many different field types were
found, some simple and others complex. Even within a single column
both simple and complex fields were seen. (In Text-fig. 13 and 14
complex fields are indicated by the symbol ‘Cx’; in Text-fig. 15, fields
1-3 were complex and 4-1] simple, all within » single column.) An
attempt was made to learn whether there was any relationship between
the different field types and the layers of the cortex. This was difficult for
several reasons. In Nissl-stained sections the boundaries between layers
of the cat’s striate cortex are not nearly as clear as they are in the primate
brain; frequently even the fourth layer, so characteristic of the striate
cortex, is poorly demarcated. Consequently, a layer could not always be
identified with certainty even for a cell whose position was directly marked
by a lesion. For most cells the positions were arrived at indirectly, from
depth readings and lesions made elsewhere in the penetrations: these
determinations were subject to more errors than the direct ones. Moreover,
few of the penetrations were made in a direction parallel to the layering,
so that the distance an electrode travelled in passing through a layer was

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
