CAT VISUAL CORTEX 135

chang’s in field positions should be systematic. In the following paragraphs
we shall consider the relative retinal positions of the receptive fields of
neighbouring cells, especially cells within a column.

In all multiple recordings the receptive fields of cells observed simul-
taneously were situated in the same general region of the retina. As a rule
the fields overlapped, but it was unusual for them to be precisely super-
imposed. For example, fields were often staggered along a line perpendi-
cular to their axes. Similarly, the successive receptive fields observed
during a long cortical penetration varied somewhat in position, often in an
apparently random manner. Text-figure 15 illustrates a sequence of twelve
cells recorded in the early part of a penetration through the cortex. One
lesion was made while observing the first cell in the sequence and another
at the end of the penetration; they are indicated in the drawing of cortex
to the right of the figure. In the centre of the figure the position of each
receptive field is shown relative to the area centralis (marked with a cross);
each field was several degrees below and to the left of the area centralis. It
will be seen that all fields in the sequence except the last had the same
axis orientation; the first eleven cells therefore occupied the same column.
All but the first three and the last (cell 12) were simple in arrangement.
Cells 5 and 6 were recorded together, as were 8 and 9.

In the left-hand part of the figure the approximate boundaries of all
these receptive fields are shown superimposed, in order to indicate the
degree of overlap. From cell to cell there is no obvious systematic change
in receptive-field position. The variation in position is about equal to the
area occupied by the largest fields of the sequence. This variation is un-
doubtedly real, and not an artifact produced by eye movements occurring
between recordings of successive cells. The stability of the eyes was checked.
while studying each cell, and any tendency to eye movements would have
easily been detected by an apparent movement of the receptive field
under observation. Furthermore, the field positions of simultaneously
recorded cells 5 and 6, and also of cells 8 and 9, are clearly different; here
the question of eye movements is not pertinent.

Text-figure 15 illustrates a consistent and somewhat surprising finding,
that within a column defined by common field-axis orientation there was
ilo apparent progression in field positions along the retina as the electrode
advanced. This was so even though the electrode often crossed through the
column obliquely, entering one side and leaving the other. If there was
any detailed topographical representation within columns it was obscured
by the superimposed, apparently random staggering of field positions. We
conclude that at this microscopic level the retinotopic representation no
longer strictly holds.

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
