128 D.H. HUBEL AND T. N. WIESEL

tract (Polyak, 1957, p. 788). The numerical inequality between crossed and
uncrossed tract fibres is generally thought to be related to an inequality
in size of the nasal and temporal hait-fields, since both inequalities are
most marked in lower mammals with laterally placed eyes, and become
progressively less important in higher mammals, primates and man.
Thompson e¢ a/. (1950) showed that in the rabbit, for example, there is a
substantial cortical region receiving projections from that part of the peri-
pheral contralateral visual field which is not represented in the ipsilateral
Tetina (the “Temporal Crescent’). Our results, concerned with more central
portions of the visual fields, suggest that in the cat the difference in the
number of crossed and uncrossed fibres in an optie tract is probably not
accounted for entirely by bres having their receptive fields in the temporal-
field crescents.

PART III

FUNCTIONAL CYTOARCHITECTURE OF THE
CAT’S VISUAL CORTEX

In the first two parts of this paper cells were studied individually, no
attention being paid to their grouping within the cortex. We have shown
that the number of functional cell types is very large, since cells may differ
in several independent physiological characteristics, for example, in the
Tetinal position of their receptive fields, their receptive-field organization,
their axis orientation, and their ocular-dominance group. In this section
we shall try to determine whether cells are scattered at random through
the cortex with regard to these characteristics, or whether there 1s any
tendency for one or more of the characteristics to be shared by neigh-
bouring cells. The functional architecture of the cortex not only seems
imteresting for its own sake, but also helps to account for the various
complex response patterns described in Part I.

RESULTS

Functional architecture of the cortex was studied by three methods.
These had different merits and limitations, and were to some extent
complementary.

(1) Cells recorded in sequence. The most useful and convenient procedure
was to gather as much information as possible about each of a long suc-
cession of cells encountered in 4 micro-electrode penetration through the
cortex, and to reconstruct the electrode track from serial histological
sections. One could then determine how a physiological characteristic
(such as receptive-field position, organization, axis orientation or ocular
dominance) varied with cortical location. The success of this method in

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
