                     Weaimtospecifically evaluate the command-following ability of the large language model (AI
                     assistant). The criteria for evaluation are as follows:
                     1.  In the first round, ‘Human’ will present a task request without providing details about
                     what needs to be done. If the AI Assistant being evaluated generates a response for the first round,
                     it should ask ‘Human’ for the specific details of the task required or wait for ‘Human’ to provide
                     specific details of the required tasks, rather than directly attempting to answer the task.
                     2. Starting from the second round, ‘Human’ will provide the specific content of what needs to be
                     carried out for the task, without repeating the task requirement. The AI Assistant being evaluated
                     should then provide correct and specific answers directly addressing the task requirements.
                     Please rate the AI assistant’s response using a 1 to 10 scale based on the following guidelines:
                     - 1-3 points: The AI assistant failed to understand the task request and neither asked rele-
                     vant questions nor provided information related to the task.
                     - 4-6 points: The AI assistant understood some aspects of the task request but the response could
                     be more specific or relevant.
                     - 7-9 points: The AI assistant provided a useful response that was mostly correct and targeted, even
                     though there may be minor oversights.
                     - 10 points: The AI assistant demonstrated a perfect understanding of the task requirements and
                     provided a comprehensive and accurate answer, fully meeting ‘Human’s expectations.
                     Additionally, please provide a brief justification for the score given, particularly high-
                     lighting how the AI assistant’s response aligns with or deviates from the above criteria. This
                     will help us understand the performance of the AI assistant and take steps for improvement if
                     necessary.
                                             Figure 25: The evaluation prompt for separate input task.
                                                                      7443
