                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                              9
                                                                 Solvers
                                                           T   S
                                                           D   U
                                                       S   S   G   E
                                                       C   C   Y   V
                                                       -   -   S   I           T   C
                                                       T   T   -   T       C   S   I
                                                       S   S               A       T
                                                       I   I   5   A       -   A   S
                                                       M   M   .   R       H   O   A
                                                       E   E   1   E   T
                                                               -           C   T   H
                                                       H   H   4   M   D   T   Y   C
                                                       C   C   C   U   -   E   S   O
                                                       L   L   V   N   E   K   O   T
                                                                       C
                                             Tracks    A   A   C   E   I   S   S   S
                                               LIA    1   1   1   0   0   0   0   0
                                               INV    1   0   1   0   1   0   0   0
                                            General   0   0   1   1   0   2   2   1
                                            Table 2: Solvers participating in each track
                 2.2  Participating Solvers
                 Atotal of eight solvers were submitted to this year’s competition, two of the solvers were submitted
                 with two conﬁgurations. Table 2 summarizes which solver participated in which track and in how many
                 conﬁgurations. Thus a total of 3 solvers participated in both the LIA and the INV tracks. In the general
                 track participated 5 solvers, out of which 2 with two conﬁgurations. Table 2 lists all the submitted solvers
                 and their authors.
                    Six of the solvers are based on the CEGIS approach: the enumerative solver (ENUMERATIVE),
                 the stochastic solver (STOCHASTIC), the Sketch solver (SKETCH-AC), the abstract solution Analyzing
                 SynthesisTool(SOSYTOAST),theAlchemistCSsolver(ALCHEMIST-CS),andtheAlchemisCSDT solver
                 (ALCHEMIST-CSDT). The approaches of these solvers differ in the way the candidate expression is
                 chosen.
                    Theenumerative solver enumerates the candidate solutions by increasing length, and tries the small-
                 est candidatethatwasnotrefutedsofar. Inbuildingnewexpressionsitusesaclassiﬁcationtoequivalence
                 classes based on correctness on the current set of examples. For further details on the enumerative solver
                 see [1, 2].
                    The stochastic solver chooses the candidate expression by a probabilistic walk on a graph where
                 nodes are expressions and edges capture single-edits of the expression parse tree. It uses the Metropolis-
                 Hastings Algorithm using a score function that is inversely proportional to the number of instances in the
                 current set of examples, on which the expression is incorrect. For further details see [1, 2].
                    TheSketchsolverfollowsasymbolicapproachtoCEGISandusesanSMTsolverstochoosethenext
                 candidate expression [18]. The Sketch Adaptive-Concretization combines symbolic and explicit CEGIS
                 approaches [8] by randomly concretizing highly inﬂuential unknowns. This approaches lends itself to
                 parallelism. Indeed SKETCH-AC is the only solver that used all four cores in this year’s competition (all
                 the other solvers used a single core).
                    The SOSYTOAST solver reﬁnes the enumerative CEGIS approach by considering abstract expres-
                 sions; these are expressions that combine grammar non-terminals and concrete symbols. The idea is
                 to use an SMT solver to refute impossible abstract expressions, instead of refuting all their respective
                 concretizations. A check of the feasbility of an abstract expression to be a solution involves qunatifer
                 alternation. The SMT calls are thus bounded by a small time unit (10 seconds) [15].
                    Thetools ALCHEMIST-CS[12]andALCHEMIST-CSDT[17]arespecializedsolversfortheLIAtrack.
                 They are base on the Alchemist [16], they both synthesize nested if-then-else expressions, and com-
