                                         Results and Analysis of SyGuS-Comp’15
                         Rajeev Alur              DanaFisman             Rishabh Singh              ArmandoSolar-Lezama
                                 University of Pennsylvania              Microsoft Research       Massachusetts Institute of Technology
                            Syntax-Guided Synthesis (SyGuS) is the computational problem of ﬁnding an implementation f that
                            meets both a semantic constraint given by a logical formula ϕ in a background theory T, and a
                            syntactic constraint given by a grammar G, which speciﬁes the allowed set of candidate implementa-
                            tions. Such a synthesis problem can be formally deﬁned in SyGuS-IF, a language that is built on top
                            of SMT-LIB.
                                TheSyntax-GuidedSynthesisCompetition(SyGuS-Comp)isanefforttofacilitate, bringtogether
                            and accelerate research and development of efﬁcient solvers for SyGuS by providing a platform
                            for evaluating different synthesis techniques on a comprehensive set of benchmarks. In this year’s
                            competition we added two specialized tracks: a track for conditional linear arithmetic, where the
                            grammar need not be speciﬁed and is implicitly assumed to be that of the LIA logic of SMT-LIB,
                            and a track for invariant synthesis problems, with special constructs conforming to the structure of
                            an invariant synthesis problem. This paper presents and analyzes the results of SyGuS-Comp’15.
                     1    Introduction
                     Syntax guided synthesis is a form of synthesis where in addition to a speciﬁcation, the user provides a
                     syntactic description of the space of possible programs that the synthesizer is allowed to consider. This
                     style of synthesis was popularized by the Sketch project [19] and has become an important approach
                     underpinning a variety of synthesis efforts (e.g. [9, 20, 22]). Within the common framework of syntax
                     guided synthesis, however, there are a number of possible approaches that can be used to solve a given
                     synthesis problem, and until recently, research on the relative merits of these different approaches had
                     beenhamperedbythedifﬁcultyofmakingdirectcomparisonsaboutalgorithmsimplementedindifferent
                     systems and with very different interfaces.
                         The Syntax Guided Synthesis competition (SyGuS-Comp) was started as a way to accelerate ad-
                     vances in the ﬁeld by offering a uniform standard notation and formalism for describing these problems,
                     allowing for direct comparisons between different solution methods. The SyGuS formalism [13] is de-
                     rived from the SMT-LIB format [5], a popular format for describing SMT problems, with the goal of
                     makingiteasytolearnforusersandeasytosupportforsynthesizerdevelopers. In the short time that the
                     formalismhasbeeninpubliccirculation,ithasalreadyperformedwellinmanyofthesegoals. Ithaspro-
                     vided important insights into the relative merits of different algorithms [1, 2] which have been exploited
                     to help develop new algorithms [8], and has been used to evaluate brand new algorithms [3, 10, 14].
                     Beyond synthesizer developers, there is a growing community of users that is coalescing around the
                     formalism.
                         The SyGuS problem is formally deﬁned as the problem of ﬁnding an implementation of a function
                     f that meets both a semantic constraint given by a logical formula ϕ in a background theory T, and
                     a syntactic constraint given by a grammar G. More concretely, let ϕ be a formula in some theory T
                     that involves some free variables x0,...xi and uses an unknown function f. The goal of synthesis is to
                     discover an implementation fimp such that replacing fimp for f in ϕ makes the formula valid for all values
                     of the free variables.
                                                                    ∀x0,...xi. ϕ[f/fimp]
                     ˇ                                                                   c
                         ´                                                              R.Alur,D.Fisman,R.Singh&A.Solar-Lezama
                     Cerny, Kuncak, Madhusudan (Eds.): Fourth Workshop on
                     Synthesis (SYNT 2015)                                              This work is licensed under the
                     EPTCS202,2016,pp.3–26,doi:10.4204/EPTCS.202.3                      Creative Commons Attribution License.
