                 R. Alur, D. Fisman, R. Singh & A. Solar-Lezama                                                 19
                 solved cegar-new.sl, three solvers solved array-new.sl, and no solver solved matrix2.sl or
                 matrix2-simp.sl. Note that the reason matrix2.sl has 1 as the lower time bound, is that that is
                 the time to terminate rather than the time to solve. Thus, one of the solvers has terminated within less
                 than 1 second, but either it did not produce a result, or it produced an incorrect result. When no solver
                 produced a correct result, there will be no colored squares/rectangles next to the lower parts of the bars.
                     Figures 3-11 presents the results of each benchmark in the competition. The results are organized
                 per category. The results for ICFP category are not included, since only one benchmark was solved. This
                 benchmark is the icfp 28 10.sl benchmark, it was solved by CVC4-1.5-SYGUS and SOSYTOAST, in
                 both conﬁgurations. The two solvers (in the overall three conﬁgurations) terminated in less than two
                 seconds, producing an expression of size two. It seems that the solvers ﬁnd it difﬁcult to handle the
                 benchmarks in this category since the speciﬁcation constraints are too partial.
                 3.4   Observations
                 Correlating the number of instances solved by the different solvers (as depicted in Fig. 2) and the features
                 a certain category has (as detailed in Table. 3.2) the following observations can be made:
                     • The CVC4-1.5-SYGUS solver preforms best on benchmarks with single invocation and a single
                       unknown.
                     • The ICE-DT solver, designated to solve invariant synthesis problems, does best on invariant syn-
                       thesis problems, which are multiple invocation.
                     • The ENUMERATIVE and STOCHASTIC solver preform well on multiple invocation problems (of
                       the general track).
                     • The SKETCH-AC solver preforms well on benchmarks with a restricted grammar.
                     Wenote that we have tested the solvers submitted to the general track on the instances of the INV
                 and LIA track translated to general SyGuS. None of them solved any of those instances. For most
                 of the solvers the problem seemed to be lack of support for arbitrary constants — the translation to
                 general SyGuS included the grammar term (Constant Int) which allows any integer to appear in the
                 speciﬁcation, and the solvers for the general track that mostly build on guiding the search according
                 to the syntactic structure do not support this construct. The reason CVC4-1.5-SYGUS failed on these
                 benchmarksisthatitwasn’tdesignedtosupportthelesscommonBooleanconnectivessuchasnandand
                 xnor that the translation to general SyGuS allowed in order to be as permissive as possible. For next
                 year’s competition we plan to test the general solvers on a restricted, yet general, subset of LIA, e.g. one
                 consisting of just zero and one as constants and a small subset of the Boolean operators from which the
                 others can be derived (e.g. and, or, and not).
                     Withregardtosizeexpressionswenotethatthe ENUMERATIVEsolverbydeﬁnitionalwaysproduces
                 the smallest expression. Inspecting ﬁgures 3-11 we observe that in many cases most solvers produced
                 expressions of relatively the same size. Though the CVC4-1.5-SYGUS solver often produces very large
                 expressions. Forinstance, onthearray search 7.sbenchmark,inwhichSKETCH-ACproducedanex-
                 pressionofsize31, CVC4-1.5-SYGUS’sexpressionwasofsize3,311,andontheLinExpr inv1 ex.sl,
                 in which both ENUMERATIVE and SKETCH-AC produced an expression of size 14, STOCHASTIC pro-
                 duced an expression of size 42, CVC4-1.5-SYGUS produced an expression of size 4,022. The largest
                 expression produced was for benchmark array search 15.sl. Its size is 1,843,271. It is the solution
                 of CVC4-1.5-SYGUS which is the only solver to solve this benchmark.
