               Neuron
               Perspective
               Canonical Microcircuits for Predictive Coding
                                  1,2,6                  1,3,4                 8                      2,3,5              6,7                    8,
               AndreM.Bastos,          W.MartinUsrey,         Rick A. Adams, George R. Mangun,            Pascal Fries,     andKarlJ.Friston *
               1
                Center for Neuroscience
               2
                Center for Mind and Brain
               3
                Department of Neurology
               4
                Department of Neurobiology, Physiology and Behavior
               5
                Department of Psychology
               University of California, Davis, Davis, CA 95618 USA
               6        ¨
                Ernst Strungmann Institute (ESI) for Neuroscience in Cooperation with Max Planck Society, Deutschordenstraße 46, 60528 Frankfurt,
               Germany
               7
                DondersInstitute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen, Kapittelweg 29, 6525 EN Nijmegen, Netherlands
               8
                TheWellcomeTrustCentrefor Neuroimaging, University College London, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK
               *Correspondence: k.friston@ucl.ac.uk
               http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2012.10.038
               ThisPerspectiveconsiderstheinﬂuentialnotionofacanonical(cortical)microcircuitinlightofrecenttheories
               about neuronal processing. Speciﬁcally, we conciliate quantitative studies of microcircuitry and the func-
               tional logic of neuronal computations. We revisit the established idea that message passing among hierar-
               chical cortical areas implements a form of Bayesian inference—paying careful attention to the implications
               for intrinsic connections among neuronal populations. By deriving canonical forms for these computations,
               one can associate speciﬁc neuronal populations with speciﬁc computational roles. This analysis discloses
               aremarkablecorrespondencebetweenthemicrocircuitryofthecorticalcolumnandtheconnectivityimplied
               by predictive coding. Furthermore, it provides some intuitive insights into the functional asymmetries
               betweenfeedforwardandfeedbackconnectionsandthecharacteristicfrequenciesoverwhichtheyoperate.
               Introduction                                                       namely, a synthesis of spectrally distinct inputs to a cortical
               The idea that the brain actively constructs explanations for its   column and the segregation of its outputs. This segregation
               sensory inputs is now generally accepted. This notion builds       can only arise from local neuronal computations that are struc-
               on a long history of proposals that the brain uses internal or     turedandpreciselyinterconnected.Itisthenatureofthisintrinsic
               generative models to make inferences about the causes of           connectivity—and the dynamics it supports—that we consider.
               its sensorium (Helmholtz, 1860; Gregory, 1968, 1980; Dayan         The aim of this Perspective is to speculate about the functional
               et al., 1995). In terms of implementation, predictive coding       roles of neuronal populations in speciﬁc cortical layers in terms
               is, arguably, the most plausible neurobiological candidate for     of predictive coding. Our long-term aim is to create computa-
               making these inferences (Srinivasan et al., 1982; Mumford,         tionally informed models of microcircuitry that can be tested
               1992; Rao and Ballard, 1999). This Perspective considers the       with dynamic causal modeling (David et al., 2006; Moran et al.,
               canonical microcircuit in light of predictive coding. We focus     2008, 2011).
               on the intrinsic connectivity within a cortical column and the       This Perspective comprises three sections. We start with an
               extrinsic connections between columns in different cortical        overviewoftheanatomyandphysiologyofcorticalconnections,
               areas. We try to relate this circuitry to neuronal computations    with an emphasisonquantitativeadvances.Thesecondsection
               by showing that the computational dependencies—implied by          considers the computational role of the canonical microcircuit
               predictive coding—recapitulate the physiological dependencies      that emerges from these studies. The third section provides
               implied by quantitative studies of intrinsic connectivity. This    aformaltreatmentofpredictivecodinganddeﬁnestherequisite
               issue is important as distinct neuronal dynamics in different      computations in terms of differential equations. We then asso-
               cortical layers are becoming increasingly apparent (de Kock        ciate the form of these equations with the canonical microcircuit
               et al., 2007; Sakata and Harris, 2009; Maier et al., 2010; Bolli-  to deﬁne a computational architecture. We conclude with some
               munta et al., 2011). For example, recent ﬁndings suggest that      predictionsaboutintrinsicconnectionsandnotesomeimportant
               the superﬁcial layers of cortex show neuronal synchronization      asymmetries in feedforward and feedback connections that
               andspike-ﬁeldcoherencepredominantlyinthegammafrequen-              emerge from this treatment.
               cies, while deep layers prefer lower (alpha or beta) frequencies
               (Roopun et al., 2006, 2008; Maier et al., 2010; Buffalo et al.,    TheAnatomyandPhysiologyofCorticalConnections
               2011). Since feedforward connections originate predominately       This section reviews laminar-speciﬁc connections that underlie
               from superﬁcial layers and feedback connections from deep          the notion of a canonical microcircuit (Douglas et al., 1989;
               layers, these differences suggest that feedforward connections     Douglas and Martin, 1991, 2004). We ﬁrst focus on mammalian
               use relatively high frequencies, compared to feedback connec-      visual cortex and then consider whether visual microcircuitry
               tions, as recently demonstrated empirically (Bosman et al.,        can be generalized to a canonical circuit for the entire cortex.
               2012). These asymmetries call for something quite remarkable:      Both functional and anatomical techniques have been applied
                                                                                            Neuron 76, November 21, 2012 ª2012 Elsevier Inc. 695
