           NeurIPSPaperChecklist
              1. Claims
               Question: Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the
               paper’s contributions and scope?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: The abstract and introduction both accurately state the main theoretical contri-
               butions of the paper and accurately discuss our experimental results.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the abstract and introduction do not include the claims
                 madeinthepaper.
                • The abstract and/or introduction should clearly state the claims made, including the
                 contributions made in the paper and important assumptions and limitations. A No or
                 NAanswertothisquestion will not be perceived well by the reviewers.
                • The claims made should match theoretical and experimental results, and reflect how
                 muchtheresults can be expected to generalize to other settings.
                • It is fine to include aspirational goals as motivation as long as it is clear that these goals
                 are not attained by the paper.
              2. Limitations
               Question: Does the paper discuss the limitations of the work performed by the authors?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We discuss the limitations of our method in the main text, including its scope,
               assumptions, and potential areas for future improvement.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper has no limitation while the answer No means that
                 the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper.
                • The authors are encouraged to create a separate "Limitations" section in their paper.
                • The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to
                 violations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings,
                 modelwell-specification, asymptoticapproximationsonlyholdinglocally). Theauthors
                 should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the
                 implications would be.
                • The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was
                 only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often
                 depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated.
                • Theauthors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach.
                 For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution
                 is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be
                 used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle
                 technical jargon.
                • The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms
                 and how they scale with dataset size.
                • If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to
                 address problems of privacy and fairness.
                • While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by
                 reviewers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover
                 limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best
                 judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an impor-
                 tant role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers
                 will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations.
              3. Theory assumptions and proofs
               Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and
               a complete (and correct) proof?
                               17
