                          Context →    anli 2: anli 2: The Gold Coast Hotel & Casino is a hotel and casino
                                       located in Paradise, Nevada.  This locals’ casino is owned and operated
                                       by Boyd Gaming.  The Gold Coast is located one mile (∼    1.6km) west of the
                                       Las Vegas Strip on West Flamingo Road.  It is located across the street
                                       from the Palms Casino Resort and the Rio All Suite Hotel and Casino.
                                       Question:  The Gold Coast is a budget-friendly casino.  True, False, or
                                       Neither?
                   Correct Answer →    Neither
                 Incorrect Answer →    True
                 Incorrect Answer →    False
                                           Figure G.2: Formatted dataset example for ANLI R2
                          Context →    Article:
                                       Mrs.  Smith is an unusual teacher.  Once she told each student to bring
                                       along a few potatoes in plastic bag.  On each potato the students had to
                                       write a name of a person that they hated And the next day, every child
                                       brought some potatoes.  Some had two potatoes;some three;some up to five.
                                       Mrs.  Smith then told the children to carry the bags everywhere they went,
                                       even to the toilet, for two weeks.  As day after day passed, the children
                                       started to complain about the awful smell of the rotten potatoes.
                                       Those children who brought five potatoes began to feel the weight trouble
                                       of the bags.  After two weeks, the children were happy to hear that the
                                       game was finally ended.  Mrs.  Smith asked,"How did you feel while carrying
                                       the potatoes for two weeks?" The children started complaining about the
                                       trouble loudly.
                                       Then Mrs.  Smith told them why she asked them to play the game.  She
                                       said,"This is exactly the situation when you carry your hatred for somebody
                                       inside your heart.  The terrible smell of the hatred will pollute your
                                       heart and you will carry something unnecessary with you all the time.  If
                                       you cannot stand the smell of the rotten potatoes for just two weeks, can
                                       you imagine how heavy it would be to have the hatred in your heart for your
                                       lifetime?  So throw away any hatred from your heart, and you’ll be really
                                       happy."
                                       Q: Which of the following is True according to the passage?
                                       A: If a kid hated four people,he or she had to carry four potatoes.
                                       Q: We can learn from the passage that we should   .
                                       A: throw away the hatred inside
                                       Q: The children complained about   besides the weight trouble.
                                       A: the smell
                                       Q: Mrs.Smith asked her students to write   on the potatoes.
                                       A:
                   Correct Answer →    names
                 Incorrect Answer →    numbers
                 Incorrect Answer →    time
                 Incorrect Answer →    places
                Figure G.3: Formatted dataset example for RACE-m. When predicting, we normalize by the unconditional probability
                of each answer as described in 2.
                                                                 51
