            www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                          www.nature.com/scientificdata
                                             Fig. 6  Distribution of human errors for e40b9e2f.json. In the lef㘶 column, we show the training examples 
                                             and test input seen by participants, as well as the true test output grid. In the right panel, we show a non-
                                             exhaustive selection of dif㘶erent incorrect submissions from participants in the H-ARC dataset that attempted 
                                             this particular problem.
                                             evaluation tasks, we f㘶nd 22 tasks (5.5% of the evaluation set) for which participants always found the correct 
                                             solution. Conversely, we f㘶nd 5 tasks (1.3% of the evaluation set) which no participants were able to solve. We also 
                                             f㘶nd that 33.8% of participants solved all evaluation set tasks they tried and that 16.7% solved none.
                                             Self-correction through feedback.  In the second technical validation, we inspect to what extent people 
                                             are making use of the minimal feedback to improve their solution. T㔴e IRT model estimates that for each addi-
                                             tional attempt, there is a substantial increase in the probability of success on a given task. Specif㘶cally, we f㘶nd that 
                                             for an average participant on an average task, success increases by 27.7% (94% HDI: [26.1%, 29.3%]) on a second 
                                             attempt and by 34.4% (94% HDI: [33.1%, 35.6%]) on a third attempt. People will of㘶en make initially wrong 
                                             guesses, but they are capable of self-correction and can f㘶exibly consider alternative solutions. For example, in the 
                                             third row of Fig. 4, the participant f㘶rst infers that the rule is to simply copy the input grid into each quadrant of 
                                             an 8 × 8 grid. Next, the participant makes the correct inference that the test outputs have some kind of symme-
                                             try, which they correctly guess to be mirroring along each axis. T㔴e idea is right, but the execution is incorrect. 
                                             Finally, they correct the minor mistakes in the top and bottom right quadrants.
                                             Incorrect responses.  In the third technical validation, we examine whether there is structure to the incor-
                                             rect responses that people produced. First, qualitative inspection suggests that people’s errors are not random, 
                                             but systematic and problem-type dependent (see Figs. 5, 6). For instance, although people make a non-negligible 
                                             amount of height and width errors, within the set of incorrect submissions, we f㘶nd that 68.2% and 73.5% of 
                                             submission attempts have both the correct height and width in training and evaluation set tasks respectively. In 
                                             general, we observe that people of㘶en successfully apply crucial transformations, such as f㘶nding the right grid 
                                             dimensions or f㘶lling in cells with the relevant colors, while missing some steps to a complete solution. T㔴ese par-
                                             tial solutions demonstrate failure modes of the human cognitive system that could inform potential mechanistic 
                                             hypotheses. For example, many of the errors illustrated in Figs. 5, 6 suggest conceptual errors. In both cases, the 
                                             incorrect outputs are of㘶en visually close to the true test output, suggesting approximations of the ground truth 
            Scientific Data | (2025) 12:1380 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05687-1                                                                     8
