                G DetailsofTaskPhrasingandSpeciﬁcations
                Thefollowing ﬁgures illustrate the formatting and phrasing of all the tasks included in the paper. All data comes from
                the ground truth datasets in this section, and no samples from GPT-3 are included here.
                          Context →    Article:
                                       Informal conversation is an important part of any business
                                       relationship.Before you start a discussion,however,make sure you understand
                                       which topics are suitable and which are considered taboo in a particular
                                       culture.  Latin Americans enjoy sharing information about their local
                                       history, art and customs.You may expect questions about your family,and
                                       be sure to show pictures of your children.You may feel free to ask similar
                                       questions of your Latin American friends.The French think of conversation
                                       as an art form,and they enjoy the value of lively discussions as well as
                                       disagreements. For them,arguments can be interesting and they can cover
                                       pretty much or any topic ---- as long as they occur in are respectful and
                                       intelligent manner.
                                       In the United States,business people like to discuss a wide range of
                                       topics,including opinions about work,family,hobbies,and politics.  In
                                       Japan,China,and Korea,however,people are much more private.They do not
                                       share much about their thoughts,feelings,or emotions because they feel
                                       that doing so might take away from the harmonious business relationship
                                       they’re trying to build.Middle Easterners are also private about their
                                       personal lives and family matters.It is considered rude,for example,to ask
                                       a businessman from Saudi Arabia about his wife or children.
                                       As a general rule,it’s best not to talk about politics or religion with
                                       your business friends.This can get you into trouble,even in the United
                                       States,where people hold different religious views.In addition,discussing
                                       one’s salary is usually considered unsuitable.Sports is typically a
                                       friendly subject in most parts of the world,although be careful not to
                                       criticize national sport.Instead,be friendly and praise your host’s team.
                                       Q: What shouldn’t you do when talking about sports with colleagues from
                                       another country?
                                       A: Criticizing the sports of your colleagues’ country.
                                       Q: Which is typically a friendly topic in most places according to the
                                       author?
                                       A: Sports.
                                       Q: Why are people from Asia more private in their conversation with others?
                                       A: They don’t want to have their good relationship with others harmed by
                                       informal conversation.
                                       Q: The author considers politics and religion   .
                                       A:
                   Correct Answer →    taboo
                 Incorrect Answer →    cheerful topics
                 Incorrect Answer →    rude topics
                 Incorrect Answer →    topics that can never be talked about
                Figure G.1: Formatted dataset example for RACE-h. When predicting, we normalize by the unconditional probability
                of each answer as described in 2.
                                                                 50
