                                                  MultiHead(Q,K,V) = Concat(head ,...,head )WO
                                                                                           1          h
                                                            where head = Attention(QWQ,KWK,VWV)
                                                                        i                    i        i       i
                                                                               Q      d   ×d       K      d   ×d      V      d    ×d
                             WheretheprojectionsareparametermatricesW             ∈Rmodel    k, W    ∈Rmodel     k, W    ∈Rmodel     v
                                                                               i                  i                   i
                             and WO ∈ Rhdv×dmodel.
                             In this work we employ h = 8 parallel attention layers, or heads. For each of these we use
                             d =d =d            /h = 64. Due to the reduced dimension of each head, the total computational cost
                              k      v     model
                             is similar to that of single-head attention with full dimensionality.
                             3.2.3   Applications of Attention in our Model
                             TheTransformer uses multi-head attention in three different ways:
                                    • In "encoder-decoder attention" layers, the queries come from the previous decoder layer,
                                       and the memory keys and values come from the output of the encoder. This allows every
                                       position in the decoder to attend over all positions in the input sequence. This mimics the
                                       typical encoder-decoder attention mechanisms in sequence-to-sequence models such as
                                       [31, 2, 8].
                                    • Theencodercontains self-attention layers. In a self-attention layer all of the keys, values
                                       and queries come from the same place, in this case, the output of the previous layer in the
                                       encoder. Each position in the encoder can attend to all positions in the previous layer of the
                                       encoder.
                                    • Similarly, self-attention layers in the decoder allow each position in the decoder to attend to
                                       all positions in the decoder up to and including that position. We need to prevent leftward
                                       information ﬂow in the decoder to preserve the auto-regressive property. We implement this
                                       inside of scaled dot-product attention by masking out (setting to −∞) all values in the input
                                       of the softmax which correspond to illegal connections. See Figure 2.
                             3.3   Position-wise Feed-Forward Networks
                             In addition to attention sub-layers, each of the layers in our encoder and decoder contains a fully
                             connected feed-forward network, which is applied to each position separately and identically. This
                             consists of two linear transformations with a ReLU activation in between.
                                                             FFN(x)=max(0,xW +b )W +b                                              (2)
                                                                                     1     1    2    2
                             While the linear transformations are the same across different positions, they use different parameters
                             from layer to layer. Another way of describing this is as two convolutions with kernel size 1.
                             The dimensionality of input and output is dmodel = 512, and the inner-layer has dimensionality
                             d    =2048.
                              ff
                             3.4   EmbeddingsandSoftmax
                             Similarly to other sequence transduction models, we use learned embeddings to convert the input
                             tokens and output tokens to vectors of dimension dmodel. We also use the usual learned linear transfor-
                             mation and softmax function to convert the decoder output to predicted next-token probabilities. In
                             our model, we share the same weight matrix between the two embedding layers and the pre-softmax
                                                                                                                             √
                             linear transformation, similar to [24]. In the embedding layers, we multiply those weights by      dmodel.
                             3.5   Positional Encoding
                             Since our model contains no recurrence and no convolution, in order for the model to make use of the
                             order of the sequence, we must inject some information about the relative or absolute position of the
                             tokens in the sequence. To this end, we add "positional encodings" to the input embeddings at the
                                                                                 5
