                   A DetailsofCommonCrawlFiltering
                   AsmentionedinSection2.2, we employed two techniques to improve the quality of the Common Crawl dataset: (1)
                   ﬁltering Common Crawl and (2) fuzzy deduplication:
                         1. In order to improve the quality of Common Crawl, we developed an automatic ﬁltering method to remove low
                            quality documents. Using the original WebText as a proxy for high-quality documents, we trained a classiﬁer
                            to distinguish these from raw Common Crawl. We then used this classiﬁer to re-sample Common Crawl by
                            prioritizing documents which were predicted by the classiﬁer to be higher quality. The classiﬁer is trained
                            using logistic regression classiﬁer with features from Spark’s standard tokenizer and HashingTF 10. For the
                            positive examples, we used a collection of curated datasets such as WebText, Wikiedia, and our web books
                            corpus as the positive examples, and for the negative examples, we used unﬁltered Common Crawl. We used
                            this classiﬁer to score Common Crawl documents. We kept each document in our dataset iff
                                                          np.random.pareto(α) > 1−document_score
                            Wechoseα=9inordertotakemostlydocumentstheclassiﬁerscoredhighly,butstillincludesomedocuments
                            that were out of distribution. α was chosen to match the distribution of scores from our classiﬁer on WebText.
                            Wefoundthisre-weighting increased quality as measured by loss on a range of out-of-distribution generative
                            text samples.
                         2. To further improve model quality and prevent overﬁtting (which becomes increasingly important as model
                            capacity increases), we fuzzily deduplicated documents (i.e. removed documents with high overlap with
                            other documents) within each dataset using Spark’s MinHashLSH implementation with 10 hashes, using the
                            samefeatures as were used for classiﬁcation above. We also fuzzily removed WebText from Common Crawl.
                            Overall this decreased dataset size by an average of 10%.
                   After ﬁltering for duplicates and quality, we also partially removed text occurring in benchmark datasets, described in
                   Appendix C.
                   B DetailsofModelTraining
                                                                                                        −8
                   Totrain all versions of GPT-3, we use Adam with β1 = 0.9, β2 = 0.95, and  = 10         , we clip the global norm of the
                   gradient at 1.0, and we use cosine decay for learning rate down to 10% of its value, over 260 billion tokens (after 260
                   billion tokens, training continues at 10% of the original learning rate). There is a linear LR warmup over the ﬁrst 375
                   million tokens. We also gradually increase the batch size linearly from a small value (32k tokens) to the full value over
                   the ﬁrst 4-12 billion tokens of training, depending on the model size. Data are sampled without replacement during
                   training (until an epoch boundary is reached) to minimize overﬁtting. All models use weight decay of 0.1 to provide a
                   small amount of regularization [LH17].
                   During training we always train on sequences of the full nctx = 2048 token context window, packing multiple
                   documents into a single sequence when documents are shorter than 2048, in order to increase computational efﬁciency.
                   Sequences with multiple documents are not masked in any special way but instead documents within a sequence
                   are delimited with a special end of text token, giving the language model the information necessary to infer that
                   context separated by the end of text token is unrelated. This allows for efﬁcient training without need for any special
                   sequence-speciﬁc masking.
                   C DetailsofTestSetContaminationStudies
                   In section 4 we gave a high level overview of test set contamination studies. In this section we provide details on
                   methodology and results.
                   Initial training set ﬁltering   Weattemptedtoremovetextoccurring in benchmarks from training data by searching
                   for 13−gram overlaps between all test/development sets used in this work and our training data, and we removed
                   the colliding 13−gram as well as a 200 character window around it, splitting the original document into pieces. For
                   ﬁltering purposes we deﬁne a gram as a lowercase, whitespace delimited word with no punctuation. Pieces less than
                   200 characters long were discarded. Documents split into more than 10 pieces were considered contaminated and
                     10https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/pyspark.ml.html#pyspark.ml.feature.HashingTF
                                                                              43
