                          Context →    How to apply sealant to wood.
                   Correct Answer →    Using a brush, brush on sealant onto wood until it is fully saturated with
                                       the sealant.
                 Incorrect Answer →    Using a brush, drip on sealant onto wood until it is fully saturated with
                                       the sealant.
                                             Figure G.4: Formatted dataset example for PIQA
                          Context →    My body cast a shadow over the grass because
                   Correct Answer →    the sun was rising.
                 Incorrect Answer →    the grass was cut.
                                            Figure G.5: Formatted dataset example for COPA
                          Context →    (CNN) Yuval Rabin, whose father, Yitzhak Rabin, was assassinated while
                                       serving as Prime Minister of Israel, criticized Donald Trump for appealing
                                       to "Second Amendment people" in a speech and warned that the words that
                                       politicians use can incite violence and undermine democracy. "Trump’s
                                       words are an incitement to the type of political violence that touched
                                       me personally," Rabin wrote in USAToday.  He said that Trump’s appeal to
                                       "Second Amendment people" to stop Hillary Clinton -- comments that were
                                       criticized as a call for violence against Clinton, something Trump denied
                                      -- "were a new level of ugliness in an ugly campaign season."
                                       - The son of a former Israeli Prime Minister who was assassinated wrote an
                                       op ed about the consequence of violent political rhetoric.
                                       - Warns of "parallels" between Israel of the 1990s and the U.S. today.
                   Correct Answer →    - Referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid
                                       political tension in Israel in 1995, Rabin condemned Donald Trump’s
                                       aggressive rhetoric.
                   Correct Answer →    - Referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid
                                       political tension in Israel in 1995, Rabin condemned Trump’s aggressive
                                       rhetoric.
                 Incorrect Answer →    - Referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid
                                       political tension in Israel in 1995, Rabin condemned Hillary Clinton’s
                                       aggressive rhetoric.
                 Incorrect Answer →    - Referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid
                                       political tension in Israel in 1995, Rabin condemned U.S.’s aggressive
                                       rhetoric.
                 Incorrect Answer →    - Referencing his father, who was shot and killed by an extremist amid
                                       political tension in Israel in 1995, Rabin condemned Yitzhak Rabin’s
                                       aggressive rhetoric.
                Figure G.6: Formatted dataset example for ReCoRD. We consider the context above to be a single ”problem” because
                this is how the task is presented in the ReCoRD dataset and scored in the ReCoRD evaluation script.
                          Context →    anli 1: anli 1: Fulton James MacGregor MSP is a Scottish politician
                                       who is a Scottish National Party (SNP) Member of Scottish Parliament
                                       for the constituency of Coatbridge and Chryston.  MacGregor is currently
                                       Parliamentary Liaison Officer to Shona Robison, Cabinet Secretary for
                                       Health & Sport.  He also serves on the Justice and Education & Skills
                                       committees in the Scottish Parliament.
                                       Question:  Fulton James MacGregor is a Scottish politican who is a Liaison
                                       officer to Shona Robison who he swears is his best friend.  True, False, or
                                       Neither?
                   Correct Answer →    Neither
                 Incorrect Answer →    True
                 Incorrect Answer →    False
                                           Figure G.7: Formatted dataset example for ANLI R1
                                                                 52
