               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We will upload our implementation code and datasets on Github. During
               the submission cycle, we provide an anonymized implementation that can be found in the
               supplementary material of this submission. Our implementation is licensed under the MIT
               license.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
                • Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https://nips.cc/
                 public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy)formoredetails.
                • While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
                 possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
                 including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
                 benchmark).
                • The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
                 reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
                 //nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy)formoredetails.
                • The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
                 to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
                • The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
                 proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
                 should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
                • At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
                 versions (if applicable).
                • Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
                 paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
              6. Experimental Setting/Details
               Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyper-
               parameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
               results?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: Please see Sections 3 and A.8.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • Theexperimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
                 that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
                • The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
                 material.
              7. Experiment Statistical Significance
               Question: Doesthepaperreporterrorbarssuitablyandcorrectlydefinedorotherappropriate
               information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
               Answer: [No]
               Justification: While we average over several trials, we do not report exact error bars.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confi-
                 dence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
                 the main claims of the paper.
                • The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
                 example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
                 run with given experimental conditions).
                • The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
                 call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)
                               27
