                             Context →    Q: What school did burne hogarth establish?
                                          A:
                  Target Completion →     School of Visual Arts
                                              Figure G.35: Formatted dataset example for WebQA
                             Context →    Keinesfalls d¨urfen diese f¨ur den kommerziellen Gebrauch verwendet werden.
                                          =
                  Target Completion →     In no case may they be used for commercial purposes.
                 Figure G.36: Formatted dataset example for De→En. This is the format for one- and few-shot learning, for this and
                 other langauge tasks, the format for zero-shot learning is “Q: What is the {language} translation of {sentence} A:
                 {translation}.”
                             Context →    In no case may they be used for commercial purposes.      =
                  Target Completion →     Keinesfalls d¨urfen diese f¨ur den kommerziellen Gebrauch verwendet werden.
                                              Figure G.37: Formatted dataset example for En→De
                             Context →    Analysis of instar distributions of larval I. verticalis collected from
                                          a series of ponds also indicated that males were in more advanced instars
                                          than females.   =
                  Target Completion →     L’analyse de la distribution de fr´equence des stades larvaires d’I.
                                          verticalis dans une s´erie d’´etangs a ´egalement d´emontr´e que les larves
                                          m^ales ´etaient `a des stades plus avanc´es que les larves femelles.
                                              Figure G.38: Formatted dataset example for En→Fr
                             Context →    L’analyse de la distribution de fr´equence des stades larvaires d’I.
                                          verticalis dans une s´erie d’´etangs a ´egalement d´emontr´e que les larves
                                          m^ales ´etaient `a des stades plus avanc´es que les larves femelles.   =
                  Target Completion →     Analysis of instar distributions of larval I. verticalis collected from
                                          a series of ponds also indicated that males were in more advanced instars
                                          than females.
                                              Figure G.39: Formatted dataset example for Fr→En
                             Context →    The truth is that you want, at any price, and against the wishes of the
                                          peoples of Europe, to continue the negotiations for Turkey’s accession
                                          to the European Union, despite Turkey’s continuing refusal to recognise
                                          Cyprus and despite the fact that the democratic reforms are at a
                                          standstill. =
                  Target Completion →     Adev˘arul este c˘a v˘a dorit¸i, cu orice pret¸ ¸si ^ımpotriva dorint¸ei
                                          europenilor, s˘a continuat¸i negocierile de aderare a Turciei la Uniunea
                                          European˘a, ^ın ciuda refuzului continuu al Turciei de a recunoa¸ste Ciprul
                                          ¸si ^ın ciuda faptului c˘a reformele democratice au ajuns ^ıntr-un punct mort.
                                              Figure G.40: Formatted dataset example for En→Ro
                                                                     60
