                 DreamCoder: Growing generalizable, interpretable
              knowledge with wake-sleep Bayesian program learning
                                       1,4,5                 1,4,5              1,4,5
                           Kevin Ellis,     Catherine Wong,      MaxwellNye,
                                ´        1,3          1                1,4,6             1,4,5
                  Mathias Sable-Meyer,      LucCary, Lucas Morales,         LukeHewitt,
                                                    1,2,6                      1,2,4,5
                           ArmandoSolar-Lezama,         Joshua B. Tenenbaum
                            1MIT 2CSAIL 3NeuroSpin 4Centerfor Brains, Minds, and Machines
             5Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences 6Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
                 Expert problem-solving is driven by powerful languages for thinking about prob-
                 lems and their solutions. Acquiring expertise means learning these languages —
                 systems of concepts, alongside the skills to use them. We present DreamCoder, a
                 systemthatlearnstosolveproblemsbywritingprograms. Itbuildsexpertisebycre-
                 ating programminglanguagesforexpressingdomainconcepts,togetherwithneural
                 networks to guide the search for programs within these languages. A “wake-sleep”
                 learning algorithm alternately extends the language with new symbolic abstractions
                 and trains the neural network on imagined and replayed problems. DreamCoder
                 solves both classic inductive programming tasks and creative tasks such as drawing
                 pictures and building scenes. It rediscovers the basics of modern functional pro-
                 gramming,vectoralgebraandclassical physics, including Newton’s and Coulomb’s
                 laws. Concepts are built compositionally from those learned earlier, yielding multi-
                 layered symbolic representations that are interpretable and transferrable to new
                 tasks, while still growing scalably and ﬂexibly with experience.
               Alongstanding dream in artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) has been to build a machine that learns like a
            child (1) – that grows into all the knowledge a human adult does, starting from much less. This dream
            remains far off, as human intelligence rests on many learning capacities not yet captured in artiﬁcial
      arXiv:2006.08381v1  [cs.AI]  15 Jun 2020systems. While machines are typically designed for a single class of tasks, humans learn to solve an
            endless range and variety of problems, from cooking to calculus to graphic design. While machine
            learning is data hungry, typically generalizing weakly from experience, human learners can often
            generalize strongly from only modest experience. Perhaps most distinctively, humans build expertise:
            Weacquire knowledge that can be communicated and extended, growing new concepts on those built
            previously to become better and faster learners the more we master a domain.
               This paper presents DreamCoder, a machine learning system that aims to take a step closer to these
            humanabilities – to efﬁciently discover interpretable, reusable, and generalizable knowledge across a
            broad range of domains. DreamCoder embodies an approach we call “wake-sleep Bayesian program
            induction”, and the rest of this introduction explains the key ideas underlying it: what it means to view
            learning as program induction, why it is valuable to cast program induction as inference in a Bayesian
            model, and how a “wake-sleep” algorithm enables the model to grow with experience, learning to learn
            moreefﬁciently in ways that make the approach practical and scalable.
                                                      1
