                   Correct Context →    Johnny likes fruits more than vegetables in his new keto diet because the
                                        fruits
                 Incorrect Context →    Johnny likes fruits more than vegetables in his new keto diet because the
                                        vegetables
                 Target Completion →    are saccharine.
                Figure G.14: Formatted dataset example for Winogrande. The ‘partial’ evaluation method we use compares the
                probability of the completion given a correct and incorrect context.
                          Context →    READING COMPREHENSION ANSWER KEY
                                       While this process moved along, diplomacy continued its rounds.  Direct
                                       pressure on the Taliban had proved unsuccessful. As one NSC staff note
                                       put it, "Under the Taliban, Afghanistan is not so much a state sponsor
                                       of terrorism as it is a state sponsored by terrorists." In early 2000,
                                       the United States began a high-level effort to persuade Pakistan to use
                                       its influence over the Taliban.  In January 2000, Assistant Secretary
                                       of State Karl Inderfurth and the State Department’s counterterrorism
                                       coordinator, Michael Sheehan, met with General Musharraf in Islamabad,
                                       dangling before him the possibility of a presidential visit in March as a
                                       reward for Pakistani cooperation. Such a visit was coveted by Musharraf,
                                       partly as a sign of his government’s legitimacy. He told the two envoys
                                       that he would meet with Mullah Omar and press him on Bin Laden.  They
                                       left, however, reporting to Washington that Pakistan was unlikely in fact
                                       to do anything," given what it sees as the benefits of Taliban control
                                       of Afghanistan." President Clinton was scheduled to travel to India.
                                       The State Department felt that he should not visit India without also
                                       visiting Pakistan.  The Secret Service and the CIA, however, warned in
                                       the strongest terms that visiting Pakistan would risk the President’s
                                       life.  Counterterrorism officials also argued that Pakistan had not done
                                       enough to merit a presidential visit.  But President Clinton insisted
                                       on including Pakistan in the itinerary for his trip to South Asia.  His
                                       one-day stopover on March 25, 2000, was the first time a U.S. president
                                       had been there since 1969.  At his meeting with Musharraf and others,
                                       President Clinton concentrated on tensions between Pakistan and India
                                       and the dangers of nuclear proliferation, but also discussed Bin Laden.
                                       President Clinton told us that when he pulled Musharraf aside for a brief,
                                       one-on-one meeting, he pleaded with the general for help regarding Bin
                                       Laden." I offered him the moon when I went to see him, in terms of better
                                       relations with the United States, if he’d help us get Bin Laden and deal
                                       with another issue or two." The U.S. effort continued.
                                       Who did The State Department feel should visit both India and Pakistan?
                   Correct Answer →    - [False] Bin Laden
                 Incorrect Answer →    - [True] Bin Laden
                Figure G.15: Formatted dataset example for MultiRC. There are three levels within MultiRC: (1) the passage, (2) the
                questions, and (3) the answers. During evaluation, accuracy is determined at the per-question level, with a question
                being considered correct if and only if all the answers within the question are labeled correctly. For this reason, we use
                Ktorefertothenumberofquestionsshownwithinthecontext.
                          Context →    Question:  Which factor will most likely cause a person to develop a fever?
                                       Answer:
                   Correct Answer →    a bacterial population in the bloodstream
                 Incorrect Answer →    a leg muscle relaxing after exercise
                 Incorrect Answer →    several viral particles on the skin
                 Incorrect Answer →    carbohydrates being digested in the stomach
                Figure G.16: Formatted dataset example for ARC (Easy). When predicting, we normalize by the unconditional
                probability of each answer as described in 2.
                                                                 54
