                          Context →    Organisms require energy in order to do what?
                   Correct Answer →    mature and develop.
                 Incorrect Answer →    rest soundly.
                 Incorrect Answer →    absorb light.
                 Incorrect Answer →    take in nutrients.
                Figure G.8: Formatted dataset example for OpenBookQA. When predicting, we normalize by the unconditional
                probability of each answer as described in 2.
                          Context →    Making a cake:  Several cake pops are shown on a display.  A woman and girl
                                       are shown making the cake pops in a kitchen.  They
                   Correct Answer →    bake them, then frost and decorate.
                 Incorrect Answer →    taste them as they place them on plates.
                 Incorrect Answer →    put the frosting on the cake as they pan it.
                 Incorrect Answer →    come out and begin decorating the cake as well.
                                           Figure G.9: Formatted dataset example for HellaSwag
                          Context →    anli 3: anli 3: We shut the loophole which has American workers actually
                                       subsidizing the loss of their own job.  They just passed an expansion of
                                       that loophole in the last few days:  $43 billion of giveaways, including
                                       favors to the oil and gas industry and the people importing ceiling fans
                                       from China.
                                       Question:  The loophole is now gone True, False, or Neither?
                   Correct Answer →    False
                 Incorrect Answer →    True
                 Incorrect Answer →    Neither
                                           Figure G.10: Formatted dataset example for ANLI R3
                          Context →    Question:  George wants to warm his hands quickly by rubbing them.  Which
                                       skin surface will produce the most heat?
                                       Answer:
                   Correct Answer →    dry palms
                 Incorrect Answer →    wet palms
                 Incorrect Answer →    palms covered with oil
                 Incorrect Answer →    palms covered with lotion
                Figure G.11: Formatted dataset example for ARC (Challenge). When predicting, we normalize by the unconditional
                probability of each answer as described in 2.
                          Context →    lull is to trust as
                   Correct Answer →    cajole is to compliance
                 Incorrect Answer →    balk is to fortitude
                 Incorrect Answer →    betray is to loyalty
                 Incorrect Answer →    hinder is to destination
                 Incorrect Answer →    soothe is to passion
                                        Figure G.12: Formatted dataset example for SAT Analogies
                   Correct Context →    Grace was happy to trade me her sweater for my jacket.  She thinks the
                                        sweater
                 Incorrect Context →    Grace was happy to trade me her sweater for my jacket.  She thinks the
                                        jacket
                 Target Completion →    looks dowdy on her.
                FigureG.13: FormatteddatasetexampleforWinograd. The‘partial’evaluationmethodweusecomparestheprobability
                of the completion given a correct and incorrect context.
                                                                 53
