                          Learning to Transduce with Unbounded Memory
                           EdwardGrefenstette    KarlMoritzHermann            MustafaSuleyman
                            Google DeepMind         Google DeepMind            Google DeepMind
                           etg@google.com          kmh@google.com         mustafasul@google.com
                                                         Phil Blunsom
                                              Google DeepMind and Oxford University
                                                   pblunsom@google.com
                                                          Abstract
                              Recently, strong results have been demonstrated by Deep Recurrent Neural Net-
                              works on natural language transduction problems. In this paper we explore the
                              representational power of these models using synthetic grammars designed to ex-
                              hibit phenomena similar to those found in real transduction problems such as ma-
                              chinetranslation. These experiments lead us to propose new memory-based recur-
                              rent networks that implement continuously differentiable analogues of traditional
                              data structures such as Stacks, Queues, and DeQues. We show that these architec-
                              turesexhibitsuperiorgeneralisationperformancetoDeepRNNsandareoftenable
                              to learn the underlying generating algorithms in our transduction experiments.
                      1   Introduction
                      Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) offer a compelling tool for processing natural language input in
                      a straightforward sequential manner. Many natural language processing (NLP) tasks can be viewed
                      as transduction problems, that is learning to convert one string into another. Machine translation is
                      a prototypical example of transduction and recent results indicate that Deep RNNs have the ability
                      to encode long source strings and produce coherent translations [1, 2]. While elegant, the appli-
                      cation of RNNs to transduction tasks requires hidden layers large enough to store representations
                      of the longest strings likely to be encountered, implying wastage on shorter strings and a strong
       arXiv:1506.02516v3  [cs.NE]  3 Nov 2015dependency between the number of parameters in the model and its memory.
                      In this paper we use a number of linguistically-inspired synthetic transduction tasks to explore the
                      ability of RNNs to learn long-range reorderings and substitutions. Further, inspired by prior work on
                      neural network implementations of stack data structures [3], we propose and evaluate transduction
                      models based on Neural Stacks, Queues, and DeQues (double ended queues). Stack algorithms are
                      well-suitedtoprocessingthehierarchicalstructuresobservedinnaturallanguageandwehypothesise
                      that their neural analogues will provide an effective and learnable transduction tool. Our models
                      provide a middle ground between simple RNNs and the recently proposed Neural Turing Machine
                      (NTM) [4] which implements a powerful random access memory with read and write operations.
                      Neural Stacks, Queues, and DeQues also provide a logically unbounded memory while permitting
                      efﬁcient constant time push and pop operations.
                      Our results indicate that the models proposed in this work, and in particular the Neural DeQue, are
                      able to consistently learn a range of challenging transductions. While Deep RNNs based on long
                          This version of the paper is identical to the version found in the proceedings of Advances in Neural Infor-
                      mationProcessingSystems,2015,withtheadditionofsomemissingreferences. Figureshavebeenmadelarger
                      for increased legibility.
                                                              1
