                     PublishedasaconferencepaperatICLR2019
                     set is used to evaluate the models at standard language modeling before testing on the LAMBADA task, and
                     thereforetoensurethatlowperformanceonthelattercannotbeattributedsimplytopoorlanguagemodeling.
                     Thetaskisevaluatedintwosettings: aslanguagemodeling(thestandardsetup)andasreadingcomprehension.
                     In the former (more challenging) case, a model is simply trained for the next word prediction on the training
                     data, andevaluatedonthetargetwordsattesttime(i.e.themodelistrainedtopredictallwords,notspeciﬁcally
                     challengingtargetwords). Inthispaper,wereporttheresultsoftheUniversalTransformerinbothsetups.
                     D.4  LEARNINGTOEXECUTE(LTE)
                     LTEisasetoftasksindicatingtheabilityofamodeltolearntoexecutecomputerprogramsandwasproposed
                     by Zaremba & Sutskever (2015). These tasks include two subsets: 1) program evaluation tasks (program,
                     control, and addition) that are designed to assess the ability of models for understanding numerical operations,
                     if-statements, variable assignments, the compositionality of operations, and more, as well as 2) memorization
                     tasks (copy, double, and reverse).
                     Thedifﬁcultyoftheprogramevaluationtasksisparameterizedbytheirlengthandnesting. Thelengthparameter
                     is the number of digits in the integers that appear in the programs (so the integers are chosen uniformly from
                     [1, length]), and the nesting parameter is the number of times we are allowed to combine the operations with
                     eachother. Highervaluesofnestingyieldprogramswithdeeperparsetrees. Forinstance,hereisaprogramthat
                     is generated with length = 4 and nesting = 3.
                      Input:
                               j=8584
                               for x in range(8):
                                 j+=920
                               b=(1500+j)
                               print((b+7567))
                      Target:
                               25011
                                                          16
