                           (MCMC)method. As in GP-based SR, arithmetic expressions are expressed with symbolic trees,
                           although BSRexplicitly deﬁnes the ﬁnal model form as a linear combination of several symbolic trees.
                           Modelparsimony is encouraged by specifying a prior that presumes additive, linear combinations of
                           small components.
                           DeepSymbolicRegression (DSR) [17] uses reinforcement learning to train a generative RNN model
                           of symbolic expressions. Expressions sampled from the model distribution are assessed to create a
                           reward signal. DSR introduces a variant of the Monte Carlo policy gradient algorithm [62] dubbed a
                          “risk-seeking policy gradient" in an effort to bias the generative model towards exact expressions.
                           AIFeynmanisadivide-and-conquer approach that recursively applies a set of solvers and problem
                           decomposition heuristics to build a symbolic model [18]. If the problem is not directly solve-able
                           by polynomial ﬁtting or brute-force search, AIFeynman trains a NN on the data and uses it to
                           estimate functional modularities (e.g., symmetry and/or separability), which are used to partition the
                           data into simpler problems and recurse. An updated version of the algorithm, which we test here,
                           integrates Pareto optimization with an information-theoretic complexity metric to improve robustness
                           to noise [23].
                           4.2  Datasets
                           All of the benchmark datasets are summarized by number of instances and number of features in
                           Fig. 5. The problems range from 47 to 1 million instances, and two to 124 features. We used
                          122black-box regression problems available in PMLB v.1.0. These problems are pulled from, and
                           overlap with, various open-source repositories, including OpenML [63] and the UCI repository [64].
                           PMLBstandardizes these datasets to a common format and provides fetching functions to load them
                           into Python (and R). The black-box regression datasets consist of 46 “real-world" problems (i.e.,
                           observational data collected from physical processes) and 76 synthetic problems (i.e., data generated
                           computationallyfromstaticfunctionsorsimulations). Theblack-boxproblemscoverdiversedomains,
                           including health informatics (11), business (10), technology (10), environmental science (11) and
                           government (12); in addition, they are derived from varied data sources, including human subjects
                           (14), environmental observations (11), government studies (12), and economic markets (7). The
                           datasets can be browsed by their properties at epistasislab.github.io/pmlb. Each dataset includes
                           metadata describing source information as well as a detailed proﬁle page summarizing the data
                           distributions and interactions (here is an example).
                           WeextendedPMLBwith130datasetswithknown,ground-truthmodelforms. Thesedatasets were
                           used to assess the ability of SR methods to recover known process physics. The 130 datasets came
                           from two sources: the Feynman Symbolic Regression Database, and the ODE-Strogatz repository.
                           Both sets of data come from ﬁrst principles models of physical systems. The Feynman problems
                           originate in the Feynman Lectures on Physics [65], and the datasets were recently created and
                           proposed as SR benchmarks [18]. Whereas the Feynman datasets represent static systems, the
                           Strogatz problems are non-linear and chaotic dynamical processes [66]. Each dataset is one state of a
                           2-state system of ﬁrst-order, ordinary differential equations (ODEs). They were used to benchmark
                           SRmethodsinpreviouswork[25,67],andaredescribed in more detail in Sec. A.4 and Tbl. 3.
                                                                          7
