                                                   3
                                                 10
                                                             black-box
                                                             feynman
                                                             strogatz
                                                   2
                                                No. of Features10
                                                   1
                                                 10
                                                                                         4            5
                                                               2            3                                      6
                                                                                       10           10
                                                             10           10                                    10
                                                                              No. of Samples
                                                        Figure 5: Distribution of dataset sizes in PMLB.
                             license, and is described in detail in Romano et al. [36]. The authors bear all responsibility in case of
                             violation of rights.
                             Dataset Properties      Thedistribution of dataset sizes by samples and features are shown in Fig. 5.
                             Datasets vary in size from tens to millions of samples, and up to thousands of features. The datasets
                             can be navigated and inspected in the repository documentation.
                             Ethical Considerations and Intended Uses           PMLBis intended to be used as a framework for
                             benchmarking ML and SR algorithms and as a resource for investigating the structure of datasets.
                             This paper does not contribute new datasets, but rather collates and standardizes datasets that were
                             already publicly available. In that regard, we do not foresee SRBench as creating additional ethical
                             issues around their use. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that PMLB contains well-known, real-world
                             datasets from UCI and OpenML for which ethical considerations are important, such as the USCrime
                             dataset. Whereas we would view the risk of harm arising speciﬁcally from this dataset to be low (the
                             data is from 1960), it is exemplary of a task for which algorithmic decision making could exacerbate
                             existing biases in the criminal justice system. As such it is used as a benchmark in a number of
                             papers in the ML fairness literature (e.g. [79, 80]). None of the datasets herein contain personally
                             identiﬁable information.
                             Feynmandatasets TheFeynmanbenchmarksweresourcedfromtheFeynmanSymbolicRegres-
                             sion Database. We standardized the Feynman and Bonus equations to PMLB format and included
                             metadata detailing the model form and the units for each variable. We used the version of the
                             equations that were not simpliﬁed by dimensional analysis. Udrescu and Tegmark [18] describe each
                                                        5                                       6
                             dataset as containing 10 rows, but each actually contains 10 . Given this discrepancy and after
                             noting that sub-sampling did not signiﬁcantly change the correlation structure of any of the problems,
                             eachdataset was down-sampledfrom1millionsamplesto100,000tolowerthecomputationalburden.
                             Wealso observed that Eqn. II.11.17 was missing from the database. Finally, we excluded three
                             datasets from our analysis that contained arcsin and arccos functions, as these were not implemented
                             in the majority of SR algorithms we tested.
                                                                                 20
