                           4.3  Metrics
                           Accuracy Weassessedaccuracyusingthecoefﬁcient of determination, deﬁned as
                                                                        P
                                                                           N(y −yˆ)2
                                                             R2 =1−        i   i    i  .
                                                                        P
                                                                           N(y −y¯)2
                                                                           i   i    i
                           Complexity    Anumberofdifferent complexity measures have been proposed for SR, including
                           those based on syntactic complexity (i.e. related to the complexity of the symbolic model); those
                           based on semantic complexity (i.e. related to the behavior of the model over the data) [23, 68];
                           those using both deﬁnitions [69]; and those estimating complexity via meta-learning [70]. The
                           pros and cons of these methods and their relation to notions of interpretability is a point of discus-
                           sion [71]. For the sake of simplicity, we opted to deﬁne complexity as the number of mathematical
                           operators, features and constants in the model, where the mathematical operators are in the set
                           {+,−,∗,/,sin,cos,arcsin,arccos,exp,log,pow,max,min}. In addition to calculating the com-
                           plexity of the raw model forms returned by each method, we calculated the complexity of the models
                           after simplifying via sympy.
                           Solution Criteria  For the ground-truth regression problems, we used the following solution deﬁni-
                           tion.
                                                                         ˆ    ˆ
                           Deﬁnition 4.1 (Symbolic Solution). A model φ(x,θ) is a Symbolic Solution to a problem with
                                                      ∗     ∗         ˆ
                           ground-truth model y = φ (x,θ ) + , if φ does not reduce to a constant, and if either of the
                                                            ∗   ˆ             ∗ ˆ
                           following conditions are true: 1) φ − φ = a; or 2) φ /φ = b,b 6= 0, for some constants a and b.
                           This deﬁnition is designed to capture models that differ from the true model by a constant or
                           scalar. Prior to assessing symbolic solutions, each model underwent sympy simpliﬁcation, as did
                           the conditions above. Relative to accuracy metrics, the Symbolic Solution metric is a more faithful
                           evaluation of the ability of an SR method to discover the data generating process. However, because
                           models can be represented in myriad ways, and sympy’s simpliﬁcation procedure is non-optimal, we
                           cannot guarantee that all symbolic solutions are captured with perfect ﬁdelity by this metric.
                           5   Results
                           Themediantest set performance on all problems and methods for the black-box benchmark problems
                           is summarized in Fig. 1. Across the problems, we ﬁnd that the models generated by Operon are
                           signiﬁcantly more accurate than any other method’s models in terms of test set R2 (p ≤6.5e-05).
                           SBP-GPandFEATranksecondandthirdandattainsimilaraccuracies,althoughthemodelsproduced
                           byFEATaresigniﬁcantly smaller (p =9.2e-22).
                           Wenotethatfourofthetopﬁvemethods(Operon,SBP-GP,FEAT,EPLEX)andsixofthetopten
                           methods (GP-GOMEA,ITEA)areGP-basedSRmethods. Theothertopmethodsareensembletree-
                           based methods, including two popular gradient-boosting algorithms, XGBoost and LightGBM [72,
                           73]); Random Forest [74]; and AdaBoost [75]. Among these methods, Operon, FEAT and SBP-GP
                           signiﬁcantly outperform and LightGBM (p ≤1.3e-07) and Operon and SBP-GP outperform XGBoost
                           (p ≤1.3e-04). We also note ITEA’s overall accuracy is not signiﬁcantly different from RandomForest
                           or AdaBoost. Of note, the models produced by the top ﬁve SR methods (aside from SBP-GP)
                           are 1-3 orders of magnitude smaller than models produced by the ensemble tree-based approaches
                           (p ≤1.3e-21).
                                                                          8
