                   Amongthenon-GP-basedSRalgorithms,FFXandDSRperformsimilarlytoeachother(p =0.76)
                   and signiﬁcantly better than BSR and AIFeynman (p ≤6.1e-05). FFX trains more quickly than
                   DSR,although DSRproduces some of the smallest solutions, akin to penalized regression. We note
                   that AIFeynman performs poorly on these problems, suggesting that not many of them exhibit the
                   qualities of physical systems (rotational/translational invariance, symmetry, etc.) that AIFeynman
                   wasdesigned to exploit. Additional statistical comparisons are given in Figs. 9-11.
                   In Fig. 2, we illustrate the performance of the methods on the black-box problems when accuracy and
                   simplicity are considered simultaneously. The optimal Pareto front for these two objectives (solid
                   line) is composed of three methods: Operon, GP-GOMEA, and DSR, which taken together give the
                   set of best trade-offs between accuracy and simplicity across the black-box regression problems.
                   Performance on the ground-truth regression problems is summarized in Fig. 3, with methods sorted
                   bytheir median solution rate and grouped by data source (Feynman or Strogatz). On average, when
                   the target is free of noise, we observe that AIFeynman identiﬁes exact solutions 53% of the time,
                   nearly twice as often as the next closest method (GP-GOMEA, 27%). However, at noise levels above
                   0.01, four other methods recover exact solutions more often: DSR, gplearn, AFP_FE, and AFP. Taken
                   together, the black-box and ground-truth regression results suggest AIFeynman may be brittle in
                   application to real-world and/or noisy data, yet its performance with little to no noise is signiﬁcant
                   for the Feynman problems. On the Strogatz datasets, AIFeynman’s performance is not signiﬁcantly
                   different than other methods, and indeed there are few signiﬁcant differences in performance between
                   the top 10 methods at any noise level. We note that the best method on real-world data, Operon,
                   struggles to recover solutions to these problems, despite ﬁnding many candidate solutions with near
                   prefect test set scores. See Sec. A.6-A.7 for additional analysis.
                   6  Discussion and Conclusions
                   This paper introduces a SR benchmarking framework that allows objective comparisons of contempo-
                   rary SR methods on a wide range of diverse regression problems. We have found that, on real-world
                   and black-box regression tasks, contemporary GP-based SR methods (e.g. Operon) outperform
                   new SR methods based in other ﬁelds of optimization, and can also perform as well as or better
                   than gradient boosted trees while producing simpler models. On synthetic ground-truth physics and
                   dynamical systems problems, we have veriﬁed that AIFeynman ﬁnds exact solutions signiﬁcantly
                   better than other methods when noise is minimal; otherwise, both deep learning-based methods (DSR)
                   and GP-based SR methods (e.g. AFP_FE) perform best.
                   WeseeclearwaystoimproveSRBenchbyimprovingthedatasetcuration,experimentdesign and
                   analysis. For one, we have not benchmarked the methods in a setting that allows them to exploit
                   parallelism, which may change relative run-times. There are also many promising SR methods not
                   included in this study that we hope to add in future revisions. In addition, whereas our benchmark
                   includes real-world data as well as simulated data with ground-truth models, it does not include
                   real-world data from phenomena with known, ﬁrst principles models (e.g., observations of a mass-
                   spring-damper system). Data such as these could help us better evaluate the ability of SR methods to
                   discover relations under real-world conditions. We intend to include these data in future versions,
                   given the evidence that SR models can sometimes discover unexpected analytical models that
                   outperform the expert models in a ﬁeld (e.g., in studies of yeast metabolism [76] and ﬂuid tank
                   systems [67]). As a ﬁnal note, our current study highlights orthogonal approaches to SR that show
                   promise, and in future work we hope to explore whether combinations of proposed methods (e.g.,
                   non-linear parameter optimization plus semantic search drivers) would have synergistic effects.
                                                   10
