         286      9.  FREQUENCY AND  GAME APPROACHES TO  RANDOMNESS
           Now we switch to the effective version of this  theorem.  Let  a  €  (0,1]  be a 
         computable real.  We can define the notions of lower semicomputable a-gale  (or 
         a-supergale)  in  a  natural  way.  As  in  the  case  a  =  1,  we  do  not  require  that 
         m(A)  =  1,  only that ra(A)  <  1.  One may expect that lower semicomputable ci­
         gales (or supergales) correspond to effectively а-null sets and this can be proved by 
         an effective version of the argument above.
           In one direction it is indeed the case:
           Theorem  185.  Let a e (0,1]  be a computable real number,  and let A c SI  be 
         an effectively а-null set.  Then there  exists  a lower semicomputable a-gale  that is 
         unbounded on prefixes of uj for every u> € A.
           P r o o f.  Indeed, the construction above gives computable mjt and their mix is 
         lower semicomputable.                                  □
           In  the  other  direction  the situation  is  more  complicated.  Let  m  be  a lower 
         semicomputable a-gale.  For some integer к we may consider the set of strings x 
         such that m(x)  > k.  This is an enumerable set.  Moreover, the sum of а-sizes of 
         its  minimal elements is bounded by 1/k.  The problem is that the set of minimal 
         elements of an enumerable set is not guaranteed to be enumerable, and if we consider 
         all  (not only minimal)  elements, we do not have the bound for the sum of a-sizes 
         anymore.  So we cannot use this argument to prove that the set of sequences, where 
         a given lower semicomputable a-gale is unbounded, is an effectively а-null set.
           In fact this is not true.  Lower semicomputable a-gales correspond to a weaker 
         notion  of an effectively  а-null  set  where we  bound  not  the sum of a-sizes  of all 
         intervals in a cover but only the sum of a-sizes of subfamilies of disjoint intervals. 
         (An equivalent definition considers only maximal intervals that are not part of other 
         intervals in the cover.)  But if we are interested only in effective dimensions, all these 
        subtle differences are easily compensated for by an arbitrarily small change in a, 
         and the following statement is enough:
           Theorem  186.  Let m  be  a lower semicomputable a-gale.  The set  of the se­
         quences u>,  such that m is not bounded on the prefixes of uj,  is an effectively ß-null 
         set for every ß > a.
           (We assume here that a and ß are computable.)
           P r o o f.  Let к be a positive integer.  Consider strings x such that m{x) > к and 
        the corresponding intervals.  We get a cover of the set in question.  What can be said 
        about the sum of /З-sizes of the covering intervals?  As we have seen, every subset of 
        disjoint intervals in this family has a sum of a-sizes at most 1/k.  In particular, for 
        every length N the sum of a-sizes for strings of length N in the family is at most 
         1/k, and the sum of /3-sizes is at most  (l/k)2~N^~ a\  So taking the sum over all 
        lengths,  we multiply the bound  1/k by the sum of the geometric series,  which is 
        finite.                                                 □
           Two last results give the following corollary:
           Theorem  187.  For an arbitrary set A <z Lt,  its effective Hausdorff dimension 
         is equal to the infimum of the set of a such that there exists a lower semicomputable 
        a-gale that is unbounded on all elements of A.
