                            13.5.  PROOF  OF  A  SIMILAR  RESULT  VIA  KRIPKE  MODELS            415
                  (A)  the set Хф V X© is algorithmically equivalent to the set ХфУ©;
                  (B)  the set Хф Л X© is algorithmically equivalent to the set ХфЛ©;
                  (C)  the set Хф —> X© is algorithmically equivalent to the set Хф_>©
                 We also use that the operations on problems are stable with respect to algo­
             rithmic equivalence.  This means that if U and V are algorithmically equivalent to 
             U'  and  V ,  respectively,  then the set  U V V  (U A V,  U —>  V)  is  algorithmically 
             equivalent to the set U' V V   (resp.  U' A V7,  U' —> V).  This is a straightforward 
             consequence of the definition.
                 (A)  By definition,  ХфУ©  is  the union of the sets Хф  and X©.  So,  given an 
             element of Хф  or X©,  it  is easy to produce an element of ХфУ©.  On the other 
             hand,  if we  get  an  element  in the  union of Хф  and  X©,  we  can find  out  which 
             world it comes from (because the lengths are different) and construct a solution to 
             Хф V X©.
                 (B) By definition, ХфЛ© is the intersection of the sets Хф and X©, and ХфАХ© 
             is their Cartesian product.  Having some element x in the intersection, we can easily 
             produce an element of the Cartesian product, namely,  [x,x].  On the other hand, 
             assume that we get some element [x, у] of the Cartesian product of Хф and X©.  If 
             at least one of x, у belongs to C (which can be decided looking at the structure of x 
             and y), then this element belongs to the intersection of Хф and X©  (both contain 
             C).  If not,  then x and у are random strings from the worlds where Ф and О are 
             true (in the model).  Looking at the lengths, we can find these two worlds, say, и 
             and v.  Now we distinguish two cases:
                 (1)  The worlds и and v are not comparable in K.  Then we produce the pair 
             [x, y] which belongs to C by definition (and therefore belongs to the intersection of 
             Хф and X©).
                 (2)  The  worlds  и  and  v  are  comparable,  e.g.,  и  precedes  v.  Then  (due  to 
             monotonicity)  the  formula  Ф  is  true  also  in  v,  so  the  element  у  belongs  to  the 
             intersection of Хф and X©.
                 (C)  This is the central part of the proof.  We have to show that,  given some 
             element of Хф_>©, we can find an element of Хф -©• X© and vice versa.  We start 
             with the first claim.
                 Assume that a string x 6 Хф_>©  is given.  We need to find some solution to 
             Хф —»■ X©.  In other words, given x and some element y G Хф, we need to find an 
             element of X©.  If either x or у belong to C, we output this element of C (recall 
             that C is a part of X©).  Now assume that both x and у do not belong to C.  Then 
             x is a random string from some world и where Ф —»■ 0 is true, and у is a random 
             string from some world v where Ф is true (and both worlds can be reconstructed 
             from the lengths of x and y).  Then three cases are possible:
                 (1)  If v  precedes u,  then Ф  is true in и also.  Therefore,  0  is true in и  (since 
             the implication Ф —> 0 is true in и).  So x belongs to X©  (and we may output x).
                 (2)  If и precedes v, then 0 is true in v, since both Ф is true in v and Ф —> 0 
             is true in v  (monotonicity).  Therefore у belongs to X©  (and we may output y).
                 (3) If и and v are incomparable, then the pair [x, y] belongs to C (and, therefore, 
             X©), so we output [u,v].
                 It  remains to show that,  given an element r of Хф  —> X©, we can construct 
             some element of Хф_>©.  So we assume that a program r is given that transforms 
             every string in Хф into some string in X©.
