                                         5.  M ONOTONE  COMPLEXITY
             162
                 On the other hand, having a sequence of intervals that cover a and have small 
            total measure, we may use it for predictions.  To make the prediction, we wait until 
            the current approximation a* gets into some of the covering intervals, and we then 
            predict  that  it  will  never go  out  of this  interval.  When and if this  turns out  to 
            be false,  we wait  until the current  approximation is covered again,  etc.  If there 
            are several intervals covering the current approximation, we choose the first one in 
            the enumeration order.  Starting from some moment, we always have the interval 
            that  covers  a  as  one  of the  options,  so  this  rule  guarantees  the  predictions  will 
            stabilize.                                                                        □
                The following is a reformulation of the same observation that does not use game 
            terminology:
                 Theorem 105.  Let ai be a computable increasing sequence of rational numbers 
            that converges to a.  The number a is non-random if and only if for every rational 
            £  >  0  one  can  effectively find  a  computable  sequence  ho,h\,...  of non-negative 
            rational numbers such that ]>T hi < e and a ^ a* + hi for some i.
                 Proof.  This corresponds to the game where predictions hi are made on every 
            step.  As we have said, this does not matter since we may use zeros.              □
                Recall also the Solovay criterion of ML-randomness  (a constructive version of 
            the Borel-Cantelli lemma, Theorem 31 on p. 64):  A real number a is non-random 
            if and only if there exists a computable sequence of intervals that have finite total 
            measure and cover a infinitely many times.  The same modification can be applied 
            to the previous theorem, and we get the following result.
                Theorem 106.  Let ai be a computable increasing sequence of rational numbers 
            that  converges  to  a.  The  number a  is  non-random  if and  only  if there  exists  a 
            computable sequence ho, hi,...  of non-negative rational numbers such that     hi < 
            oo  and a ^ ai + hi for infinitely many i.
                PROOF.  If a is non-random, we apply the preceding result for e — 1,1/2,1/4,... 
            and then add the resulting sequences (with shifts 0,1, 2,... to the right).  Each of 
            them provides one value of i such that a ^   +     and these values are still suitable
            after shifts and cannot be bounded due to shifts.  On the other hand, if a ^ ai + hi 
            for  infinitely  many  i,  we  get  a sequence of intervals with finite sum of measures 
            that covers a infinitely many times (technically, we should replace closed intervals 
            by slightly bigger open intervals).  It remains to use Solovay’s criterion (or recall its 
            proof:  The effectively open set of points that are covered with multiplicity m has 
            measure at most 0 (l/m)).                                                         □
                The randomness criterion given in this section implies the following observation 
            (which may look strange at first).  Consider a sum of a computable series of positive 
            rational numbers.  The randomness of the sum cannot change if all summands are 
            changed by some 0(1)-factor.  Indeed, all hi can be multiplied by a constant.
                Now let us prove the result mentioned above:
                Theorem 107.  If a and ß are non-random lower semicomputable reals,  their 
            sum a + ß is non-random too.
                PROOF.  It now seems very easy at first:  Make predictions in the games for a 
            and ß, and then take their sum as prediction for a + ß.  (If for a we expect increase
