                            12.3.  CONDITIONAL CODES:  MUCHNIK’S THEOREM              371
                So  our  goal  is  now  that  A has a right  neighbor  that has few  (polynomially 
            many)  left neighbors.  Here, speaking about neighbors, we consider the restriction 
            of E onto    as a bipartite graph with left part Sb and right part ®m.  Note that 
            this restricted graph has about 2m vertices both in the left and in the right parts.
               In other words,  a vertex in the right part is bad if it has many neighbors on 
            the left;  a vertex in the left part is bad if all its right neighbors are bad.  We need 
            A to be not bad.  How can we achieve this?
               The fraction of bad right vertices is small:  The number of edges is bounded by 
            the size of the left part times the maximal degree of left vertices, and each bad right 
            vertex creates a lot of edges.  More precisely, we can ensure that this fraction is at 
            most  l/p{n) for a given polynomial p (the threshold for the number of neighbors 
            for bad vertices is determined by p and increases as p increases).
               We want to prove then that the fraction of bad left vertices is also small.  To 
            achieve this, we assume that E has the following expander-like property:  For every 
            subset T  in the  left part,  the set  of all right neighbors  of T-vertices  is  at least as 
            big  as  T  itself  Having  this  property,  we  consider  the  set  T  of bad  vertices  in 
            the left part;  all their right neighbors are bad by definition, so the number of left 
            bad vertices is bounded by the number of the right bad vertices.  (Note that this 
           expander property of E remains valid if E is restricted on Sb-)
               It remains to explain where we get a (simple) graph E with this property and 
           what we do if A falls into a (small) set of bad vertices.
               It is well known that the existence of expander-like graphs can be usually proved 
           by a rather simple probabilistic arguments.  To construct them explicitly is quite a 
           different story; it is a very interesting and complicated business where great progress 
           has been made during the last decades.  However, we can avoid these complications 
           using the following simple trick:  After the existence of a graph with some property 
           is proven, we can generate all the graphs until we find some with this property.  We 
           assume that the property is decidable, so this is an algorithmic procedure (which 
           takes  a  long  time,  but  we  have  no  time  bounds).  The  first  suitable  graph  has 
           logarithmic complexity, since to organize the search we need to know only the sizes 
           of sets (we may assume the sizes are powers of 2).  In this way we convert the pure 
           existence proof into a simple object with the property we need.
               The last bit of the proof is why A cannot be bad.  Note that bad right strings can 
           be enumerated effectively when В (as well as E) is known.  As we find new elements 
           in Sb, we generate new left vertices in the restricted graph and new bad strings in 
           the right part.  Since E is known, we can also enumerate left bad strings.  So every 
           bad string can be specified (given В) by its ordinal number in the enumeration of 
           bad left strings, and the number of these strings is significantly less than 2m.  And 
           we assumed that the complexity of A given В is m, this was our definition of m. 
           So A cannot be bad.  (Also we need 0(logn)-bits to specify m, a, and E, but, as 
           we will see, the gap is enough to get a contradiction.)
               We have described the proof in the top-down mode.  Now let us describe the 
           details of the  argument  in the bottom-up direction.  First,  we need  an existence 
           proof for expander-like graphs.
               Lemma.  Let a and m be positive integers,  and let a ^ m.  Then there exists a 
            bipartite graph E сШа x ®m  where each vertex in the left side has degree at most 
           a + m + 2,  with the following property.  For every set T e l“ with at most 2m~1
