                                 ARE  “REAL-LIFE”  SEQUENCES  COMPLEX?                   459
                Technically, the frequency approach can be related to the principles explained 
            above.  Indeed,  the event  “the number of tails in  1000 000 coin tossings deviates 
            from 500000 more than by 100 000” has a simple description and very small prob­
            ability, so we reject the fair coin assumption if such an event happens (and ignore 
            the dangers related to this event if we accept the fair coin assumption).  In this way 
            the belief that frequency should be close to probability (if the statistical hypothesis 
            is chosen correctly) can be treated as the consequence of the principles explained 
            above.
                                   Dynamical and statistical laws
                We have described how probability theory is usually applied.  But the funda­
            mental question remains:  Probability theory describes (to some extent) the behav­
            ior of a symmetric coin or die and turns out to be practically useful in many cases. 
            But is it  a new law of nature or some consequence of the known dynamical laws 
            of classical mechanics?  Can we somehow prove that a symmetric die indeed has 
            the same probabilities for all faces (if the starting point is high enough and initial 
            linear and rotation speeds are high enough)?
                Since it is not clear what kind of “proof” we would like to have, let us put the 
            question in a more practical way.  Assume that we have a die that is not symmetric 
            and we know exactly the position of its center of gravity.  Can we use the laws of 
            mechanics to find the probabilities of different outcomes?
                It  seems  that  this  is  possible,  at  least  in  principle.  The  laws  of mechanics 
            determine the behavior of a die (and therefore the outcome) if we know the initial 
            point in the phase space (initial position and velocity) precisely.  The phase space, 
            therefore, is split into six parts that correspond to six outcomes.  In this sense there 
            is  no  uncertainty or probabilities up to  now.  But  these six parts are well mixed 
            since very small modifications affect the result, so if we consider a small (but not 
            very small) part of the phase space around the initial conditions and any probability 
            distribution on this part whose density does not change drastically,  the measures 
            of the six parts will follow the same proportion.
                The last sentence can be transformed into a rigorous mathematical statement 
            if we  introduce specific  assumptions  about  the  size  of the starting  region  in  the 
            phase space and variations of the density of the probability distribution on it.  It 
            then can be proved.  Probably it is a rather difficult mathematical problem not yet 
            solved,  but  at  least  theoretically  the  laws  of mechanics  allow  us  to  compute the 
            probabilities of different outcomes for a non-symmetric die.
                                Are  “real-life”  sequences complex?
                The argument in the preceding section would not convince a philosophically 
            minded person.  Well,  we can  (in principle)  compute some numbers that can be 
            interpreted as probabilities of the outcomes for a die, and if we do not need to fix the 
            distribution on the initial condition,  it is enough to assume that this distribution 
            is  smooth  enough.  But  still  we  speak  about  probability  distributions  that  are 
            somehow externally imposed in addition to dynamical laws.
                Essentially the same question can be reformulated as follows.  Make  106  coin 
            tosses and try to compress the resulting sequence of zeros and ones by a standard 
            compression program, say, gzip.  (Technically, you need first to convert a bit se­
            quence into a byte sequence.)  Repeat this experiment (coin tossing plus gzipping)
