                            9.13.  CHANGE IN  THE  MEASURE AND  RANDOMNESS             309
            but the convergence is slow.  More precisely, we need the following relation between 
            Пк and Ek :  The probability that for Пк independent trials with success probability 
            I + Ek the fraction of ones is strictly greater than 1/2 is at least  1 — 2“^fc+3l   (In 
            fact, this can be achieved for any sequence Ek if Пк are sufficiently large.)
                If Пк and Ek are chosen in this way, we get with positive probability a sequence 
            u)  such  that  for  all  к  in  each  of the  two  halves  of the  kth.  block  the  imbalance 
            between zeros and ones is in the expected direction (more ones in the left half and 
            more zeros in the right half).
                Therefore, there exists an ML-random (with respect to fi) sequence uj with this 
            property, and Theorem 202 guarantees that it is also Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland 
            random.
                Now let us show that some Church admissible selection rule selects from lo a 
            sequence that  is  not  Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland  random.  The selection rule is 
            very simple:  we select the first bit of each block all the time, and depending on its 
            value we select either all bits in the left half or all bits in the right half (of the rest 
            of the block).
               Why is the selected subsequence ui' not Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random? 
            This is easy—the imbalance condition allows us to reconstruct the value of the key 
            (the first bit of the block) by counting zeros and ones in the following Пк bits.  So 
            we first read  bits that go after the key bit and then predict correctly the value 
            of the key bit.  This ends the proof of (c).
               We may also note that the sequence uJ is Mises-Church-Daley random, since 
            the  composition  of two  Church-Daley  admissible  rules  is  again  a Church-Daley 
            admissible rule.  On the other hand, if we permute ui' (computably) by placing the 
            key bit  after  all  the  other  bits  of the same block,  we get  a sequence that  is  not 
            Mises-Church random.  So statement (d) is also proven.                      □
               Note that this result shows that all the Mises-style definitions of randomness 
            are  not  very  natural.  Indeed,  Mises  noted  the  following  important  property  of 
            Kollektivs:  Applying  an  admissible  selection  rule  to  a Kollektiv,  we  should  get 
            another Kollektiv.  And statement (c) shows that the Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland 
            definition does not  have this property.  The definitions with monotonie selection 
            rules  (Mises-Church,  Mises-Daley)  have  this  property,  but  are  not  stable  with 
            respect to computable permutation of terms, which is also quite strange.
                279  Prove that by applying a Kolmogorov-Loveland admissible selection rule 
            to a Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random sequence we get a Mises-Church-Daley 
            random sequence.
                280  Prove that there exists a Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random sequence 
            (with limit frequency 1/2) that is not even Kurtz random.
               (Hint:  Take a sequence that is random with respect to a slightly biased measure. 
            One of the martingales constructed in the proof of Theorem 197 is bounded on it, so 
            the other one has a computable lower bound that computably converges to infinity.)
               It seems that the examples of this section tell us that the Mises-Kolmogorov- 
            Loveland definition is probably too weak from the intuitive viewpoint.  The same 
            can be said about the definition of computably random sequences.  Now the nat­
            ural question arises:  What happens if we combine these two definitions?  Assume 
            that  we  play with  a sequence of bits  that  is selected in arbitrary  (not  necessar­
            ily monotonie) order as in Kolmogorov-Loveland selection rules, but we can make
