             340            10.  INEQUALITIES  FOR ENTROPY,  COMPLEXITY AND  SIZE
                 Note that  all  the  random  variables      are  defined  on  the  same  probability 
             space, so we may consider the joint distribution of a pair (£y , £ z )  for two subspaces 
             Y and Z.  What is the entropy of this pair?  The restrictions of a functional on Y 
             and Z determine its restriction on Y + Z = {y + z\y £ Y, z £ Z} and vice versa. 
             So the entropy of the pair equals dim(T + Z) • log |F|.
                 This observation immediately gives the following corollary:
                 Theorem 216.  Every inequality that is true for entropies of random variables 
             and their tuples is also true for the dimensions of finite-dimensional subspaces of a 
             vector space over a finite field if the entropy of the tuple is replaced by the dimension 
             of the sum of corresponding subspaces.
                  294  Show that a similar statement is also true for finite-dimensional vector 
             spaces over M and over C.
                 (Hint:  Since  the  M-dimension  of a  space  over  C  is  twice  as  big  as  its  K- 
             dimension, it is enough to consider M.  We assume that a scalar product is defined 
             and consider the random variables that are projections of a random point in the 
             unit ball on the subspaces; the projections are rounded up to e-precision for some 
             small E.  The resulting variables do not have entropies exactly proportional to the 
             dimensions,  since the projection of the random point of the ball is not uniformly 
             distributed and the projections on X and Y determine the projection onto X + Y 
             only up to some precision, so we have finitely many possibilities, etc.  Still the main 
             terms are proportional to dimensions as e —> 0.)
                 If we want to generalize this result to arbitrary infinite fields,  a more compli­
             cated argument is needed.  First of all, the statement about the existence of a tuple 
             of subspaces with prescribed dimensions  (and the dimensions of their sums)  can 
             be translated into the language of matrices—it says that there exists a matrix of 
             a certain size where some minors are zeros while some other minors are not.  So if 
             some tuple of dimensions is possible for a field F, it is also possible for all its ex­
             tensions.  Thus we may consider only algebraically closed fields.  The algebraically 
             closed fields of some characteristic are elementarily equivalent to each other, so we 
             can choose an appropriate field:  C for characteristic zero was already discussed, and 
             we can choose the algebraic closure of Z/pZ for prime characteristic p.  If for this 
             field a tuple of dimensions can be implemented, it can be implemented by matrices 
             with algebraic elements,  so there exist a finite extension that contains all needed 
             elements,  and we again reduce the statement to the case of finite fields  (already 
             considered).
                  295 Provide the details for this argument.
                 Note that the conversion of subspaces into random variables is a rather general 
             way of constructing tuples of variables with required entropies (and therefore points 
             in S)—all the points in 8 that we have seen are constructed in this way.  Only in 
             the next section,  speaking about conditionally independent variables,  will we see 
             examples of an essentially different type.
                 Proof.  Now we finally prove Ingleton’s inequality for dimensions.  It cannot 
             be derived directly from Theorem 216, since it is not true for entropies of arbitrary 
             random variables.  So we need to prepare ourselves by establishing more connections 
             between entropies and dimensions.
