                          5.6.  LEVIN-SCHNORR THEOREM         147
        of Dc.  (We do not claim the the set of minimal elements is enumerable,  so this 
        sequence may be non-computable.)
           For each X{ consider the minimal description pi  (according to the definition of 
        the monotone complexity:  Xi ^ D(pi) where D\ £ —> £ is the optimal monotone 
        decompressor).  Then l(pi) — KM(xi) < — logp{xf) — c.  Moreover, no pi is a prefix 
        of another one (otherwise, the corresponding Xi would be compatible).  Therefore 
        Zi2~liPi)  <  1  (being  the  sum  of uniform  measures  of disjoint  sets  f2Pi).  The 
        corresponding p(xi) are 2C times smaller, so we get the statement of Lemma 1.
           Our assumption guarantees that the sequence со has prefixes from Dc for every c. 
        To prove that  {ca} is an effectively null set, we need to cover со by an enumerable 
        family of intervals with total measure not exceeding 2~c, and we can use intervals 
        from Dc.
           However, there is a small technical problem here (that we already encountered 
        while speaking about randomness tests).  We know that for intervals from Dc the 
        total  measure  (i.e.,  the  measure of their union)  does  not  exceed  2~c  (as  Lemma 
        1  says),  but  the  definition  needs  that  the  sum  of measures  of all  intervals  does 
        not exceed 2~c.  We cannot solve this problem by considering only minimal points 
        (maximal  intervals),  since  the  set  of minimal  points  is  not  always  enumerable. 
        Instead we can use the following statement:
           Lemma 2.  Every enumerable set of strings xo,Xi,...  can be transformed into 
        an enumerable set of incompatible strings with the same union (J^ QXi.  This trans­
        formation is effective (an algorithm that enumerates the first set can be transformed 
        into an algorithm that enumerates the second one).
           Indeed,  if during the enumeration we get a string that is an extension of the 
        previously  enumerated  one,  this  string  can  be  omitted  (since  the  corresponding 
        interval is already covered).  If we get a string у that is a (proper) prefix of a string 
        X enumerated earlier, we have to split the difference fly \ Qx into a finite number 
        of disjoint intervals and replace у by strings that define those intervals.  Lemma 2 
        is proven.
           Applying Lemma 2, we get an enumerable set of incompatible strings;  these 
        strings may be not in Dc, but this is not important.  It is enough to know that they 
        correspond to disjoint intervals that cover со, and the union of these intervals has 
        /r-measure at most 2~c, according to Lemma 1.
           Proving the converse implication, we need to show that if a sequence со belongs 
        to  an  effectively null set,  then the differences between the negative logarithms of 
        the measure and the monotone complexity of ca-prefixes are unbounded.  The idea 
        of this construction may be explained as follows:  given a set of small measure, we 
        construct a monotone decompressor that treats favorably the elements of this set 
        (i.e.,  provides short descriptions for their prefixes).
           Let  us  provide  details  now.  Assume that  со  belongs  to  a set  U  which  is  an 
        effectively null set  (with respect to measure p).  For each c we can effectively find 
        a family of intervals  f2Xo, QXl,...  that  cover  U  (and  therefore со)  and  have  total 
        measure less  than 2~c.  If we multiply  the measures of all these intervals by  2C, 
        the  sum  is  still  less  than  1.  Consider  the  computable  sequence pi  —  2cp(flXi). 
        Applying Theorem  59  (p.  96),  we  get  a prefix-free  decompressor  for  which  the 
        prefix complexity of i does not exceed — logyu(S7Xi) — c + 2.  A composition of this 
        decompressor and the computable mapping i (->• Xi is a prefix-free decompressor Dc
