            436                         14.  ALGORITHMIC STATISTICS
            So every piece can be specified by its ordinal number,  so its complexity does not 
            exceed i.
                So the properties (a)-(c) are equivalent (modulo logarithmic change in parame­
            ters), and it remains to show that they are equivalent to (d).  Evidently, (d) implies 
            (b), so it is enough to show that (a) implies (d).
                So let us assume that x is an element of some finite set A that has complexity 
            at most i and size at most    .  All elements of A have complexity at most i + j + 
            0(log(i + j)).  As usual, we ignore the logarithmic term and hope that the reader 
            can make the necessary corrections.
                Assume also that an enumerated list is given that includes all the strings of 
            complexity at most i + j.  We want to show that x will appear in this list not too 
            close to the end and at least    strings will follow it.  Knowing the set A, we may 
            perform the enumeration until all the elements of A appear in the list.  Let В be the 
            part of the list enumerated at that moment.  The set В is a finite set of complexity 
            at  most  i  (since  it  is  determined  by  A  and  the  enumerating algorithm,  which is 
            assumed to be simple).  Now consider the (lexicographically) first 2J strings outside 
            B.  Each of these strings is determined by В (of complexity i) and ordinal number 
            (at most j bits), so they have complexity at most i + j.  And all these strings should 
            appear in the enumeration after x.                                               □
                One could say that we have introduced an additional classification of strings of 
            complexity at most I by measuring the distance to the end of the list.  In terms of 
            our two-dimensional stratification, we can speak of an increasing sequence of sets 
            Sij on the diagonal i+j — I.  (Strictly speaking, the increasing sequence is obtained 
            only after logarithmic corrections.)  Random strings of length n ^ I — 0(\ogl) (i.e., 
            the strings of length n and complexity n) are at the beginning of this classification, 
            having (I * 0)-descriptions.  At the other end we have (few) strings that have only 
            (0 * ^-descriptions.
                 353        Show that  all  strings  at  the  end  of the  enumerated  list  of strings  of 
            complexity at most n (that are followed only by poly(n) strings) are almost equal 
            in the sense that the conditional complexity of one of them given the other one is 
            O(logn).
                One might say that the difference between I and the logarithm of the number of 
            strings after x in the enumerated list of all strings of complexity at most I measures 
            how strange x is.  (The equivalence of (b)  and  (d)  guarantees that this measure 
            does not  depend significantly on the choice of enumeration.)  Random strings of 
            length at most I — O(logZ) are not strange at all, while the strings that are close to 
            the end of the list, have maximal strangeness (close to I).  But one should keep in 
            mind the following:
                   •  The strangeness of a given string x of complexity к  (that is determined 
                     by its position in the enumerated list of all strings of complexity at most 
                     к)  can decrease significantly if we consider the same x as an element of 
                     the  list  of all  strings  of complexity  at  most  I  for  some  I  >  k.  In  fact, 
                     each string x determines a function that maps I  ^  C(x)  to the number 
                     of strings after x in the enumeration of strings of complexity at most I. 
                     It is essentially the same curve we considered before (the boundary curve 
                     for Px) but transformed into other coordinates:  for every I we look at the 
                     moment when the diagonal line i + j — I gets inside Px.
