                                           9.5.  MARTINGALES                             273
                Similar  statements  are  true  for  the  limit  behavior  of a  martingale.  Let  us 
            say that a martingale m wins on a sequence oj  if the values of m on the prefixes 
            of oj  are not  bounded.  The following result,  discovered by Ville  (who introduced 
            martingales), was one of his main motivations.
                Theorem 177.  (a) Let m be a martingale.  Then the set of sequences on which 
            m wins has measure 0.
                (b)  Let X  be  a set of measure 0.  Then there  exists  a martingale m  that wins 
            on all elements of X.
                Proof,  (a)  The set  Uk  of sequences,  where m reaches the value к or more, 
            has measure at most l/к and is open; all sequences where m wins belong to Uk for 
            every к.
                (b) For every к consider the open set Uk of measure at most 1 /к that contains 
            X, and the corresponding martingale     that achieves к or more on all elements of 
            Uk-  Now we need to combine these martingales into one.  Note that the weighted 
            sum of martingales is a martingale (we may split the capital into pieces and use a 
            separate strategy for every piece).  Let us use martingale 7774«  with initial capital 
            (weight) 2~n for all n in parallel  (note that  1 = J2n 2~n)-  Then for all sequences 
            that  belong to  £/4n,  we guarantee  a return of 4n • 2~n  =  2n  (plus,  maybe,  some 
            return from other investment strategies).  So the return on every element of X is 
            infinite.                                                                     □
                The  proof of this  result  is  similar  to  the  proof of the  randomness  criterion 
            (Theorem 90, p.  146); we can say that we now have proved the classical version of 
            Theorem 90 by the same argument.
                In fact we have proved a bit more that was promised.  Let us say that m strongly 
            wins on the sequence oj  if its values on the prefixes of oj  are not only unbounded 
            but have limit +00.  In the proof of Theorem 177 we have constructed a martingale 
            that strongly wins on all elements of X.  (Indeed, the martingale constructed in the 
            proof of Theorem 176 is at least \ je on all sufficiently long prefixes.)
                Again,  Theorem 93 on p.  149 can be considered as a constructive version of 
            this stronger result.  (We will discuss later the connection between randomness and 
            effective versions of the martingale notions.)
                Combining these observations, we get the following corollary:
                Theorem 178.  For every martingale m there exists  (another)  martingale m! 
            that strongly wins on all sequences where m wins.
                Proof.  As we have noted, we can obtain m! going to sets and back.  There is 
            also a very intuitive direct construction.  The martingale m! should behave like a 
            wise stock market player:  when it achieves capital 2 (using the m-strategy), it puts 
            aside half of its money as a safety measure (i.e., this part of the money is bet on 
            0 and 1 in equal parts), and the other half is used according to m (but with twice 
            smaller amounts).  When the capital reaches 4 (i.e., when m would reach 8), again 
            the half (2) is saved, and the rest is used for playing, etc.
                Here is another version of the argument  (which is better if we want  to keep 
            the martingales enumerable from below):  For each martingale m and each number 
            c  >  0,  consider the martingale mc which imitates m while the capital is smaller 
            than c, and then stops.  Then the limit of mc is at least c on every sequence where 
            m reaches c at least once.  It remains to take the weighted sum of m±k with weights 
            2~k.                                                                         □
