             148                         5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
             such that
                                      k 'dc (xi)  ^   -  log fj.(üxi ) -  c +  2.
             (The subscript  c in Dc  is  used to  stress  that  the  construction depends  on  c;  we 
             use prefix-free decompressors since it will be useful later.)  Monotone complexity 
             does not exceed the prefix one, so if the difference between the negative logarithm 
             of the measure and the prefix complexity is large, the same is true for monotone 
             complexity.  It  remains  to  combine the decompressors  Dc  into one decompressor 
             (not depending on c).
                 We use the same trick that was was used in the construction of an optimal 
            decompressor.  We want the string cu to be the description of the string v if и is a 
            description of v with respect to Dc.  Here c is a self-delimited encoding of length 
            O(logc) for a natural number c.  If the decompressor D is constructed in this way, 
            the following inequality holds (for all c):
                                   K'D{xi) < -\ogp(ttx.) -  c + O(logc).
            Since the monotone complexity does not exceed the prefix one, we replace K'D(xi) 
            by KM(xi) and conclude that all the strings Xi  (for a given c) have the difference 
            between — logp{xi) and KM(xi) at least c—O(logc).  If an infinite sequence belongs 
            to С/, it has a prefix of this type for any c, therefore the difference is unbounded for 
            its prefixes.
                 The Levin-Schnorr theorem is proven.                                         □
                 142  Show that in the first part of the proof (if a difference is unbounded, the 
            sequence belongs to an effectively null set) it is enough to have P upper semicom- 
            putable, while in the second part it is enough to have P lower semicomputable.
                In fact the proof gives us a bit more than we claimed.  Here are several modifi­
            cations of the Levin-Schnorr theorem that can be extracted from it:
                 Theorem 91.  We may replace the monotone complexity KM(x) by the a priori 
            complexity К A (x)  in the statement of the previous theorem.
                 P r o o f.  The  a priori  complexity  does  not  exceed  the  monotone  one,  so  the 
            difference may only increase.  So we need to change only the first part of the proof. 
            It  is  easy:  in the proof of Lemma 1 we should note that     2  KA(xi)  ^  -ц  since
            this sum is the sum of the a priori measures of disjoint intervals QXi.           □
                Theorem  92.  We  can  also  replace  the  monotone  complexity KM(x)  by  the 
            prefix complexity K(x).
                PROOF.  Here we go in the other direction and increase complexity, so only the 
            second part of the proof needs to be redone.  And this is trivial—recall that in fact 
            we got just an upper bound for prefix complexity.                                 □
                Theorem 92 is nowadays the most popular version of the Levin-Schnorr ran­
            domness criterion (see, e.g.,  [103] ; see [18] about the history of these results).
                The use of monotone or a priori complexity seems  (at  least  to  the  authors) 
            more  natural  (though  the  prefix  version  has  its  own  advantages;  see  below  the 
            formula for the randomness deficiency in terms of prefix complexity).  Note that if 
            we use prefix complexity, the difference in the Levin-Schnorr theorem can become 
            negative.  For example, in the case of the uniform measure — log/^flz) is just the 
            length of string x,  and the prefix complexity may be greater than the length (the 
            difference can be of order logn; see Theorem 63, p.  100).
