                                    5.2.  MAXIMAL  SEMIMEASURE  ON THE  BINARY  TREE                               121
                      122  Show that in Theorem 76 one can replace uniform distribution by arbi­
               trary computable distribution that does not have atoms,  i.e.,  every singleton has 
               measure 0.
                     (Hint:  A computable measure P can be transformed into the uniform one as 
               follows:  as we get 2 from a P-generator, we output a string x such that the segment 
               7Г% is entirely in the open interval Ix (of numbers whose binary representation starts 
               with x).)
                    It  is  important  here that the measure does not have atoms:  if uj has positive 
               measure, then the value Ä(uj) has positive probability and we cannot get a uniform 
               output distribution (that does not have atoms).  But, as we have seen, this is the 
               only obstacle.
                    More difficult problem arises if we do not know exactly the distribution of our 
               (“low-quality”) source of random bits.  Can we still generate some distribution that 
               is at least close to the uniform one?  This question can be formalized in terms of the 
               randomness extractors — both in combinatorial terms and in terms of Kolmogorov 
               complexity.  See the survey by A. Wigderson [219] and the references in this survey 
               for the combinatorial setting,  and the survey of M.  Zimand  [224];  we do not go 
               into this direction in our book.
                                  5.2.  Maximal semimeasure on the binary tree
                    Theorem 78.  The class of all lower semicomputable semimeasures on the bi­
               nary tree has the greatest element (up to a constant factor):  there eoästs a semimea­
                                                                                                                       
               sure a  in  this  class  such  that for  every  other a'  in  the  same  class  the  inequality
               a'(x) ^ ca(x)  holds for some constant c and for all x.
                    PROOF.  We can use the same idea as for semimeasures on N  (Theorem 47, 
               p.  80).   Consider  a  probabilistic  machine  A  that  first  chooses  at  random  some 
               probabilistic machine and then simulates it.  If a semimeasure a' corresponds to a 
               probabilistic  machine A',  then a'(x)  <  (1 /e)a(x)  where e  is the probability that 
               machine A' is chosen.                                                                                □
                    Another proof deals with functions, not machines:  first we construct a sequence 
               ao, a i,... of semimeasures and then consider the function a =                    A^a* where A* are 
               computable coefficients that have sum 1  (e.g., A* =
                    A delicate point:  we need a sequence that includes all (tree) semimeasures that 
               are  computable  from below,  and  the sequence  itself should  be computable  from 
               below.  This means that we need a lower semicomputable function (i,x) h* u(i,x) 
               such that  (1)  for any fixed i the function щ : x h-> u(i,x)  is a tree semimeasure; 
               (2) the sequence щ contains all lower semicomputable tree semimeasures.
                    This can be done either by enumerating all probabilistic machines (and that cor­
               responds to the first proof) or by enumerating all lower semicomputable functions 
               and then trimming them to make them semimeasures and leaving them unchanged 
               if they already are semimeasures.  See the similar argument for semimeasures on N 
               (Section 4.2, p. 79).  In this process, if the condition p(x) ^ p(x0)+p(xl) is violated, 
               we should increase p(x) and so on, unless in the end this makes p(A) greater than 1.
                     123 Provide the missing details in this argument.
                    Remark.  The first proof of Theorem 78 gives a bit more than we have claimed. 
               Indeed,  in  this  proof we  obtain  the  lower  bound  not  only  for  the  probability  of
