             270           9.  FREQUENCY  AND  GAME  APPROACHES TO  RANDOMNESS
                 {Hint\  Let pn be the probability of the event  “up to length n all prefixes have 
             more zeros that ones”.  The sequence pn is a decreasing computable sequence, and 
             its limit is the measure of the set in question.  So if this limit is 0, for a given e > 0 
             we can wait until pn becomes less than e.  One can also refer to the results about 
             Kurtz randomness (p.70).)
                  262        Prove that the set of sequences that contain more zeros than ones in all 
             prefixes in an effectively null set, not referring to the Law of the Iterated Logarithm.
                 (Hint :  For every n the probability of the event “the n-bit prefix has more zeros 
             than ones”  is about 1/2.  If we take a sequence of values of n that grow fast, these 
             events will be almost independent (the deviations for the short prefixes is negligible 
             compared to the expected deviation for the long prefixes).)
                 We do not provide the details of this argument here.  Instead,  we prove in a 
             different way that there exist Mises-Church random sequences that are not Martin- 
             Löf random.  Namely, we show that there exists a Mises-Church random sequence 
             whose prefixes have logarithmic complexity, using the same explicit construction.
                 Theorem  173.  There  exists  a Mises-Church random sequence d = l)qL)\ • • • 
             such that
                                          C{u)0 • • -wn_ i) = О (log n).
                 PROOF.  To construct such a sequence, we apply our construction to the count­
             able list of all Church-admissible selection rules:  The sets R{ are all decidable sets 
             of strings.  This is not an effective construction, since we cannot enumerate all de­
             cidable sets (all total algorithms)—this is not a surprise, otherwise we would get a 
             computable Mises-Church random sequence!
                 We can enumerate all programs, but then we need some extra advice:  Some­
             body should tell us which of the programs define decidable sets (so we can replace 
             the bad ones by some fixed decidable set).  This information for the first m. programs 
             takes m bits (one bit per program), and it is enough to perform our construction 
             until we reach active vertices of height  (length) m.  At that moment we have con­
             structed at least km-\  = 22m-2 bits of the sequence.  So the amount of additional 
             information (advice) is logarithmic in the length of the prefix.                    □
                 Let us repeat again the important corollary of this result:
                 Theorem  174.  There  exists  a  Mises-Church  random  sequence  that  is  not 
             Martin-Löf random {with, respect to the uniform measure).
                 If the Mises-Church definition is too weak, maybe we should make it stronger? 
             For example, one can consider a broader class of selection rules or a different type of 
             gambling.  In the following sections of this chapter we consider some generalizations 
             that involve non-monotonic rules (the order of terms in the subsequence is not the 
             same as in the entire sequence)  and  martingales  (where we start playing with a 
             fixed amount and can bet all the money we have).
                                              9.5.  Martingales
                 When discussing why Kollektivs exist, we referred to gambling practice.  But 
             from the practical viewpoint our gambling framework looks quite unnatural:  a gam­
             bler comes to a casino where a fair coin is tossed, he selects some of the bits (before 
             they are produced) and then  “wins”  (discredits the casino’s source of randomness) 
             if the selected outcomes are imbalanced (do not have limit frequency 1/2).
