             378            12.  MULTISOURCE  ALGORITHMIC  INFORMATION THEORY
             elements.  In other words, we get an (infinite) bipartite graph, and the degree of all 
             vertices (in both parts) is bounded by 2 k.
                 Now we want to split all the pairs into 2k+1  (or fewer) classes in such a way 
             that each class is a one-to-one correspondence (it does not have pairs on the same 
             vertical or the same horizontal line).  In graph terms, we color all the edges using 
             2 k+ 1  colors in such a way that every two edges that have a common endpoint have 
             different colors.
                 This is easy—each new edge is colored by a first  (in some order)  color that 
             was not used for other edges with common endpoints.  Since fewer than 2k edges 
             may share each of the endpoints, we always have a free color.  (In other words, we 
             number the classes by 0 • • • 2 k+l  — 1,  and  each new pair is put  in  a class that  is 
             allowed, i.e., it does not contain pairs with the same first or second coordinates.)
                 We described an infinite process that depends on к but not on A, B.  At some 
             moment it assigns some color (class number) to the pair  (A, В)  (edge A-В).  Let 
             X be this color (=its number in binary).  It has at most к + 1 bits instead of к but 
             one additional bit does not matter with our precision.  Knowing A, k,  and X, we 
             can find В:  run the process described,  and wait for an edge starting at A that is 
             colored by X ; its other endpoint is B.  For the same reason, knowing B, k, and X, 
             we can compute A.  Finally, C(X | A, B, k) = 0(1):  knowing k, A, and B, we wait 
             until the edge A-В gets some color; this color is A.                                 □
                  321        Prove a stronger statement about bipartite graphs.  Assume that a finite 
             bipartite graph is given,  and all vertices  (in both parts)  have degree at  most  N. 
             Prove that one can color its edges using N colors in such a way that the edges with 
             common endpoint have different colors.  Why can we not use this fact in the proof 
             of Theorem 232 (and need to prove a weaker version from scratch)?
                 (Hint:  We may assume that the degree is exactly N, and then apply the Ford- 
             Fulkerson  argument  (max-flow=min-cut)  or the Hall theorem.  However,  all this 
             does not help us since we obtain the graph edges sequentially and have to assign 
             colors on-line.)
                 One may also note that the color in the last proof can be encoded by a (k + 1)- 
             bit string, so it determines k, and we do not need to specify к separately.  So the 
             complexities C(A\B, X)  and  C(B\A,X)  are in fact 0(1),  not  0(\ogk).  To put 
             the same observation in programming terms, for every two strings A and В there 
             exists a program of complexity max(C(A | B), C(B \ A)) + 0(1) that maps A to В 
             and В to A.  Indeed, consider a program that knows the color of the edge A-В (it 
             is used as a constant in the program) and waits for an edge having this color and 
             being incident to the input vertex.  (Note that a logarithmic amount of information 
             is  enough to distinguish  A  and  В;  e.g.,  one may specify the number of positions 
             where A and В differ.)
                  322        Let A and В be two independent random n-bit strings (i.e., C(A) « n, 
             C(B)  æ  n,  and  C((A,B))  æ  2n).  Give  an  explicit  example of a string X  that 
             satisfies the requirements of Theorem 232.
                 (Answer:  Take the bit-wise XOR of A and В.)
                 For the case when the complexity C(A \ В) and C(B \ A) are different, the fol­
             lowing refinement of Theorem 232 is possible.  Assume, for example, that C( A \ B) 
             is bigger.  Then the string X can be split into two parts:  the first part is the infor­
             mation needed to transform A into В, it has length C(B\A); the rest has length
