           198                6.  GENERAL SCHEME FOR COMPLEXITIES
               Now by a-ß-description mode we mean an enumerable a-/9-regular binary re­
           lation on E X  E.  For each description mode S we define the complexity function 
           К s'-  let Ks(x) be the minimal length of a description of x, i.e., the minimal value 
           of l(y) for all у such that  (y, x) G S.
               Theorem  128.  For each of the four combinations a,ß G  {=,x}  there exists 
           an  optimal a-ß-description  mode  (that provides  minimal  complexity function up 
           to  0 (1))  and the  corresponding  complexity is  one  of the four known  complexities 
           C, K, KM, KR.
               Proof.  In all four cases enumerable a-/?-regular relations correspond to com­
           putable continuous mappings of the corresponding sets (see Problem 197) that gives 
           the same complexity function, and vice versa.                          □
               So we can provide new labels for rows and columns of our table (Figure 18):
                                                objects
                                               -      —
                                         — C KR
                                         X     К     KM
                                  Figure 18.  a-/?-complexities
               198 For pairs of strings show how one can define:
              (a) monotone complexity (using computable continuous mappings E —> E x E 
           as  decompressors;  such mappings are in one-to-one correspondence with pairs of 
           computable mappings
              (b)  a  priori  probability  (using  probabilistic  machines  that  have  two  output 
           tapes where bits are printed sequentially);
              (c) decision complexity (using computable continuous mappings Nj_ —> E x E).
               199 Prove that  the  decision  complexity  of a  pair  (x,y)  (see  the  previous
           problem) does not exceed l(x) + l(y) + 0 (1).
              (Hint:  The string z can describe the pair (z,zR), where zR is z from right to 
           left.)
              A surprising result:  this property remains  true for triples  [72]  and  even  for 
           ^-tuples of every fixed к  (it is a corollary of the results of [146]).  For monotone 
           complexity a similar  property  is  not  true  as  was  shown  by  Pavel  Karpovich  in 
           [72]:  the  value  of KM(x,y)  may exceed l(x) + l(y)  by a quantity of order logn 
           for n-bit strings.  (Therefore the monotone complexity of pairs may exceed a priori 
           complexity by the same margin,  since a priori complexity of a pair is obviously 
           bounded by the sum of lengths.)
              Another classification scheme for complexities (which goes back to [95]) defines 
           each version of complexity as the smallest upper semicomputable function in some 
           class (of functions that satisfy some restrictions).  We have already considered these 
           restrictions, so we just collect the results obtained and give the conditions for each 
           complexity version:
