        442              14.  ALGORITHMIC  STATISTICS
        be described by the number of changes (plus some small information describing the 
        process as a whole and the value of j).  So it  is crucial to  have an upper bound 
        for the number of changes.  How do we get this bound?  We note that when Aij 
        becomes empty,  it is filled again,  and all the new elements should be covered by 
        bad sets before the new change could happen.  Two types of bad sets may appear: 
        small ones (of size less than 2? ) and large ones (of size at least 2J ).  The slope of the 
        boundary line for T guarantees that the total number of elements in all small bad 
        sets does not exceed 2г+?  (up to a poly(n)-factor), so they may make Aij  empty 
        only 2г times.  And the number of large bad sets is 0(2г), since the complexity of 
        each is bounded by i.  (More precisely, we count separately the number of changes 
        for Aij that are first changes after a large bad set appears, and the number of other 
        changes.)
          Can we use the same argument in the new situation? We can generate bad sets 
        as before and have the same bounds for their sizes and the total number of their 
        elements.  So the length n' of x can be the same (in fact,  almost the same, as we 
        will need now that the union of all bad sets is less than half of all strings of length 
        n'\  see  below).  Note that we now may enumerate only bad sets in A, since A is 
        enumerable, but we do not even need this condition.  What we cannot do is let Aij 
        be the set of the first non-deleted elements:  we need Aij to be a set from A.
          So we now go in the other direction.  Instead of choosing x first and then finding 
        a suitable good Aij  that contains x,  we construct the sets Aij  G A that change 
        in time in such a way that (1) their intersection always contains some non-deleted 
        element (an element that is not yet covered by bad sets) and (2) each Aij has not 
        too many versions.  The non-deleted element in their intersection (in the final state) 
        is then chosen as x.
          Unfortunately, we cannot do this for all points (г, j) along the boundary curve. 
        (This explains the loss of precision in the statement of the theorem.)  Instead, we 
        construct good sets only for some values of j.  These values go down from n to 0 
        with step  л/nTögn.  We select  N =  \Jnf logn points  (z'i, ji), • •., (гдг, Jn)  on the 
        boundary of T; the first coordinates ii,... An form a non-decreasing sequence, and 
        the second coordinates j i,..., Jn split the range n ■ ■ • 0 into (almost) equal intervals 
        (ji  = n, jjH  =0).  Then we construct good sets of sizes at most 2J1,..., 2JJV, and 
        denote them by A\,..., An-  All these sets belong to the family A.  We also let Ao 
        be the set of all strings of length n' — n + O(logn);  the choice of the constant in 
        O(logn) will be discussed later.
          Let us first  describe the construction of A i,... ,An  assuming that the set of 
        deleted elements is fixed.  (Then we discuss what to do when more elements are 
        deleted.)  We construct As  inductively  (first Ai,  then A<i  etc.).  As we have said, 
        #AS ^ 2Js  (in particular, An is a singleton), and we keep track of the ratio
              (the number of non-deleted strings in Ao П A\ П • • • П As)/2Js.
        For  s  —  0  this  ratio  is  at  least  1/2;  this  is  obtained  by  a suitable  choice  of n' 
        (the  union of all bad  sets should cover at  most half of all n'-bit  strings).  When 
        constructing the next As,  we ensure that this ratio decreases only by a poly(n)- 
        factor.  How?  Assume that As_i  is already constructed;  its size is at most 2Js~1. 
        Condition (3) for A guarantees that As_i can be covered by Л-sets of size at most 
        2Js, and we need about 2Js-1-J'5  covering sets (up to a poly(n)-factor).  Now we let 
        As be the covering set that contains the maximal number of non-deleted elements 
        in Aq П • • • П As-\.  The ratio can decrease only by the same poly(n)-factor.  In this
