                         5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
        178
          The name “randomness deficiency” is quite general and may be understood in 
        different ways in different contexts.  We already considered the expectation-bounded 
        and probability-bounded deficiencies for infinite sequences, and in Chapter  14 we 
        consider the randomness deficiency of an element of a finite set.  However, in this 
        section by randomness deficiency we mean the function dp defined on finite strings 
        as explained above.
          The definition above assumes that P(QX) > 0; if P(QX) = 0 for some x, we let 
        dp(x) = Too.
          The randomness deficiency is always non-negative (up to a constant); see The­
        orem 89.
           176   Prove that for every string x the deficiency of at least one of the strings 
        xO and xl  does not  exceed the deficiency of x.  (We assume that  a computable 
        measure P used in the definition of the deficiency is fixed.)
          This problem shows that we can start with an arbitrary string with finite defi­
        ciency (non-zero measure) and extend it bit by bit not increasing its deficiency.  The 
        randomness criterion guarantees that in this way we get an ML-random sequence 
        with respect to the measure used in the definition of deficiency.
          After the notion of deficiency is introduced,  we return to the proof of Theo­
        rem 122.
          P r o o f.  To  get  a  “non-proper”  sequence w,  we need to ensure that for every 
        computable measure P there is a prefix of со that has large randomness deficiency 
        with respect to P.  So we get a countable family of requirements:  for each measure 
        P and for each c the corresponding requirement says that some prefix has deficiency 
        at least c with respect to P.
          Using a diagonal construction,  we fulfill  these  requirements  one  by  one.  At 
        each step we add to a current prefix some additional bits to ensure that the next 
        requirement is fulfilled.  So we need to check that  for each string x and for each 
        computable measure P and constant c there exists an extension у of x that has 
        deficiency at least c with respect to P.  Indeed, we may extend x by adding a bit 
        in such a way that the P-ineasure decreases at least by a factor of 1.5, then do this 
        again, etc.  This can be done effectively, so the complexity of the prefixes increases 
        slowly, while the measure decreases fast, so we get an arbitrary large deficiency.  □
          Essentially  the  same  argument  can  be  explained  using  “generic”  sequences. 
        Recall that a subset A of Q is everywhere dense if it has non-empty intersection with 
        every interval.  A famous Baire theorem says that the intersections of a countable 
        family of open sets  Ai  (an open set  is a union of intervals)  that  are everywhere 
        dense is non-empty and, moreover, everywhere dense.
          1177 I Prove the Baire theorem starting with any string and adding suffixes to 
        get inside dense open sets (one by one).
          Now we consider effectively open sets (unions of enumerable families of inter­
        vals)  that  are everywhere dense.  We get a countable family of open sets that are 
        dense everywhere.  Their intersection is an everywhere dense sets whose elements 
        are called generic sequences.  (The full technical name is weakly 1-generic sequences; 
        see  [147,  Definition  1.8.47].)  Informally speaking,  a generic sequence violates ev­
        ery law that prohibits an enumerable dense set of prefixes.  (Every string has an 
        extension that violates the law, and violations can be effectively discovered.)
