                                        3.  MARTIN-LÖF RANDOMNESS
             64
                 What is strange here?  Intuitively, a set A is a null set if it has  “few elements” ; 
             the nature of these elements does not matter much.  Any singleton {w}  C Q is a 
             null set, and this does not depend on the properties of the sequence u>.
                 On the other hand, now we see that if we replace null sets by effectively null 
             sets, the situation changes drastically:  We may put as many non-ML-random (non­
             typical)  sequences  in  a set  as  we  wish,  and  it  would  remain  an  effectively  null 
            set.  But just one ML-random (typical) sequence added is enough to destroy this 
            property.
                 For  example,  recall  that  any  computable  sequence  forms  an  effectively  null 
            singleton  (with respect  to  uniform measure).  We  immediately get  the following 
            corollary:
                 Theorem  30.  The  set  of all  computable  sequences  of zeros  and  ones  is  an 
             effectively null subset of fl ( with respect to the uniform measure).
                 It is interesting to note that this observation was made before Martin-Löf gave 
            the definition of randomness, while developing the constructive version of calculus 
             (the Zaslavsky construction [221] is used for many counterexamples; it deals with 
            real numbers instead of bit sequences).
                 In the next section we explore the properties of ML-random sequences (with re­
            spect to the uniform measure).  We end this section with the following nice criterion 
            for ML-randomness which is attributed to R. Solovay in [34].
                 Theorem 31.  A sequence u>  is not ML-random with respect to  a computable 
            measure p if and only if there exists s computable sequence of intervals with a finite 
            sum of measures that covers uj  infinitely many times,  i.e.,  a computable sequence 
             of binary strings xq,x\,X2, ■ ■ ■  such that
             and ui E QXi  for infinitely many i.
                 Proof.  Assume that w is not ML-random.  Then for each e we can effectively 
            find a computable sequence of intervals that covers {w} and has a sum of measures 
            less than e.  Then we combine these sequences for e = 1,1/2,1/4,1/8,...  and get 
            a computable sequence of intervals with a sum of measures not exceeding 2 that 
            covers и infinitely many times (at least once for each e).
                On the other hand, assume that there is a computable sequence xo, x\, X2,... 
            of strings such that the sum of measures of corresponding intervals Qx.  does not 
            exceed some constant c and infinitely many of them contain w.  We may assume 
            without loss of generality that c is a rational number.  To find a covering for w that 
            has a sum of measures less than e, we consider the set Mjv  of all sequences in fl 
            that are covered at least N times.  Here AT is a positive integer such that c/N < e. 
            It is easy to see that Mjv can be represented as the union of a computable sequence 
            of disjoint intervals (while reading xq,x\, ..., we discover more and more elements 
            of Мдг  and add respective intervals as they appear).  Therefore the set  {w} is an 
            effectively null set and the sequence uj is not ML-random.                         □
                Remark.  This result is a constructive version of the Borel-Cantelli lemma (if 
            the sum of measures of sets Aq, A\,... is finite, then the set of all points that belong 
            to  infinitely many A{  is a null set),  and our argument is an effective version of a 
            classical proof of the Borel-Cantelli lemma.  However, we should be careful since
