                            8.5.  FORBIDDEN  SUBSTRINGS         243
            Theorem  159.  If for some  rational a  and some  set F  of forbidden  strings 
         the statement of Theorem  157  is false  (F  has less  than 2an forbidden strings for 
         each n,  but there is no  infinite  sequence without long forbidden strings),  then the 
         same happens for a decidable set F.
            (Note that for a decidable F the relativization does not change anything; the 
         restriction to rational a is also not important, since we can increase a to a greater 
         rational number.)
           P r o o f.  Assume that for some a < 1 and some set F the statement of Theo­
         rem 157 is false.  Then for each c we may find a set Fc in such a way that:
            (a) Fc contains only strings of length greater than c;
            (b)  Fc contains at most 2ak strings of length к (for every k);
           (c)  each infinite sequence contains at least one substring that belongs to Fc.
           (Indeed,  we can let  Fc be the set of all strings in F that have length greater
         than c.)
           The standard argument (compactness, König’s lemma) shows that every suffi­
         ciently long string has at least one substring in Fc, so one can find finite Fc with the 
         same properties.  Moreover, such a finite set can be found by an exhaustive search, 
         so we get Fc that has these properties and can be found effectively when c is given. 
         (Why do we first need to switch to finite sets?  To make the search possible.)
           Now we construct the sequence c* such that q+i is greater than the lengths of 
         all strings in FCi.  The union of all FCi  is a decidable set that violates the statement 
         of Theorem 157.                                        □
           Note the structure of our arguments:  knowing that an object with some prop­
         erty exists, we perform an exhaustive search and effectively find a (perhaps different) 
         object with the same property.  This observation is often useful when dealing with 
         Kolmogorov complexity.
            247    Prove that  if for some set  F of strings there exists  a  (one-sided)  infi­
         nite sequence that does not contain substrings from F, there exists a bidirectional 
        sequence that does not contain substrings from F.
           (Hint:  The compactness argument shows that both properties are equivalent 
        to the existence of arbitrarily long finite sequences that do no contain substrings 
         from F.)
           J.  Miller  [125]  suggested  a direct  proof of Theorem  157,  where the required 
        sequence is constructed inductively, and we at each step guarantee that some quan­
        tity (the emergency level) is not very large.  Let us explain how the emergency level 
         is computed and why it can be kept bounded.
           Fix  a  set  of forbidden  strings  F.  The  emergency  level  for  a  string  x  (the 
         already  constructed  part  of the  sequence)  is  denoted  by  wc(x),  where  c  will  be 
        some constant slightly greater that 1/2.  The value of wc(x) is big if we have almost 
        got a forbidden substring.  The definition follows:  For every possible occurrence of 
        a forbidden string z e F in the possible extension of x (this means that 2 is on the 
        right of x, but there is a non-zero overlap, Figure 25), we take the number к of bits 
        of 2 that are missing in x, and add ck to wc(x).  In other words, wc(x) is the sum 
        of ck  for all 2  G  F and for all possible occurrences.
