                            SIMPLE  EVENTS  AND  EVENTS  SPECIFIED  IN  ADVANCE             457
            describe the events in question.  Both choices lead only to an 0(l)-change asymp­
            totically; however, strictly speaking, due to this uncertainty we cannot say that one 
            event has smaller complexity than the other one.  (The word “negligible” is also not 
            very precise.)  On the other hand,  the scheme described, while very vague, seems 
            to be the best approximation to the current practice.
                 One of the possible ways to eliminate complexity in this picture is to say that a 
            hypothesis is discredited if we observe a very improbable event that was specified in 
             advance (before the experiment).  Here we come to the following question.  Imagine 
            that you make some experiment and get a sequence of a thousand bits that looks 
            random at first.  Then somebody comes and says,  “Look, if we consider every third 
            bit  in  this  sequence,  the  zeros  and  ones  alternate.”  Will you  still believe  in  the 
            fair coin hypothesis?  Probably not, even if you haven’t thought about this event 
            before while looking at the sequence:  the event is so simple that one  could think 
            about it.  In fact, one may consider the union of all simple events that have small 
            probability, and it still has small probability (if the bound for the complexity of a 
            simple event is small compared to the number of coin tossings involved, which is a 
            reasonable condition anyway).  And this union can be considered as specified before 
            the experiment (e.g., it is described in this book).
                On the other hand, if the sequence repeats some other sequence observed earlier, 
            we probably will not believe it is obtained by coin tossing even if this earlier sequence 
            had high complexity.  One may explain this opinion saying the the entire sequence 
            of observations is simple since it contains repetitions; however, the first observation 
            may not  be covered  by  any probabilistic  assumption.  This  could  be  taken into 
            account by considering the conditional complexity of the event (with respect to all 
            information available before the experiment).
                The  conclusion  is  that  we  may  remove  one  problematic  requirement  (being 
            simple  in  some  vague  sense)  and  replace  it  by  another  problematic  one  (being 
            specified before the observation).  Borel comments on the situation  [
            112]:                                                                 21,  pp.  111- 
                     Disons un mot de la réflexion de Bertrand relativement au tri­
                     angle équilatéral que formeraient  trois étoiles ;  elle se  rattache 
                     à  la  question  du  nombre  rond.  Si  l’on  considère  un  nombre 
                     pris  au  hasard entre  1.000.000 et  2.000.000 la probabilité pour 
                     qu’il soit  égal  à  1.342.517 est  égale à un millionième;  la prob­
                     abilité pour qu’il soit égal à 1.500.000 est aussi égale à un mil­
                     lionième.  On  considérera  cependant  volontiers  cette  dernière 
                     éventualité comme moins probable que la première ;  cela tient 
                     à  ce  qu’on  ne  se  représente  jamais  individuellement  un  nom­
                     bre tel que 1.542.317 ;  on le regarde comme le type de nombres 
                     d’apparences analogues et si,  en le transcrivant,  on modifie un 
                     chiffre, on s’en aperçoit à peine et l’on ne distingue pas 1.324.519 
                     de 1.324.517 :  le lecteur a besoin de faire un effort pour s’assurer 
                     que les quatre nombres écrits dans le lignes précédentes sont tous 
                     différents.
                          Lorsque l’on a observé un nombre tel que le précédent comme 
                     évaluation d’un angle en dixiémes de secondes centésimales, on 
                     ne songe pas à se poser la question de savoir qu’elle était la prob­
                     abilité pour que cet angle fût précisément égal a 13°42/51/(7  car
