                           12.  MULTISOURCE ALGORITHMIC INFORMATION THEORY
            392
                                            Q
                                        2 n
                                                                   V
                                Figure 50.  Necessary (cut-flow)  conditions
                As in the case of common information (Chapter 11), we may say that the profile 
            of a pair  (A, В)  (the set  of all pairs  (p, q)  that  make the request  feasible)  is not 
            determined by complexities and conditional complexities of A and В—for different 
            pairs with the same complexities the profiles could be different.  Problem 332 shows 
            that for some pairs the profile coincides with the upper bound provided by cut-flow 
            inequalities.  Theorem 237 shows that for some pairs the profile coincides with the 
            lower bound (it equals G; see Figure 51).
                However, we need to be careful to formulate the statement correctly.  One would 
            like to claim that for every B' that is simple relative to B, the pair (C(A \ B'), l(B')) 
            is in an 0(logn)-neighborhood of G, and the hidden constant in O(logn) does not 
            depend on n and B1.  However, the assumption “В' is simple relative to      needs to 
            be formulated in some exact way.  We should choose some threshold r and require 
            that  C(B'\B) < r.  As r increases,  the distance between  (C(A\B/),l(B/))  and G 
            may increase, and we should make an exact statement about it.  In fact, the distance 
            is bounded by O(r).  Here is the exact statement:
                Theorem 237.  For every n there exist strings A, В of complexity 2n+0(logn) 
            such that C(A,B)  =  3n + O(logn),  and for every В’  the pair (C(A \ B’), 1{B')) 
            belongs to the 0(logn + C(B' \ B))-neighborhood of the set G.
                                     Figure 51.  Sufficient conditions
