              XVI                           BASIC  NOTIONS  AND  NOTATION
              are called  intervals.  The concatenation xoj  of a finite sequence x  and an infinite 
              sequence w is defined in a natural way.
                   In some contexts it is convenient to consider finite and infinite sequences to­
              gether.  We use the notation E for the set of all finite and infinite sequences of zeros 
              and ones, i.e., E = SUfi, and Ex denotes the set of all finite and infinite extensions 
              of a string x.
                   We  consider  computable  functions  whose  arguments  and  values  are  binary 
              strings.  Unless stated otherwise,  functions are partial  (not  necessarily total).  A 
              function  /   is  called  computable  if there  is  a machine  (a program,  an  algorithm) 
              that for all x,  such that  f(x)  is defined,  halts on input x  and outputs the result 
              f(x)  and does not halt on all inputs x outside the domain of /.  We also consider 
              computable  functions  whose  arguments  and values  are finite objects  of different 
              type,  like natural numbers,  integer numbers,  finite graphs,  etc.  We assume that 
              finite objects are encoded by binary strings.  The choice of an encoding is not im­
              portant provided different encodings can be translated to each other.  The latter 
              means that we can algorithmically decide whether a string is an encoding of an 
              object  and,  if this  is  the  case,  we  can  find  an  encoding of the  same object  with 
              respect to the other encoding.
                   Sometimes we consider computable functions of infinite objects, like real num­
              bers or measures.  Such considerations require rigorous definitions of the notion of 
              computability, which are provided when needed (see below).
                  A set  of finite  objects  (binary  strings,  natural  numbers,  etc.)  is  called  com- 
              putably enumerable, or just  enumerable, if there is a machine (a program, an algo­
              rithm) without input that prints all elements from the set (and no other elements) 
              with arbitrary delays between printing consecutive elements.  The algorithm is not 
              required to halt even when the set is finite.  The order in which the elements are 
              printed can be arbitrary.
                  A  real  number  a  is  computable  if there  exists  an  algorithm  that  computes 
              a  with  any  given  precision:  for  any  given  rational  e  >  0,  the  algorithm  must 
              produce a rational number at distance at most £ from a (in this case we say that 
              the algorithm  computes  the number).  A real number a is  lower semicomputable 
              if  it  can  be  represented  as  a  limit  of a  non-decreasing  computable  sequence  of 
              rational numbers.  An equivalent definition:  a is lower semicomputable if the set of 
              rational numbers that are less than a is enumerable.  A sequence of real numbers 
              is  computable if all its terms are computable, and given any n we are able to find 
              an algorithm computing the nth number in the sequence.  The notion of a lower 
              semicomputable sequence of reals is defined in an entirely similar way (for any given 
              n we have to find an algorithm that lower semicomputes the nth number).
                  We consider measures  (more specifically, probability measures,  or probability 
              distributions) on Q.  Every measure can be identified by its values on intervals flx. 
              So measures are identified with non-negative functions p on strings which satisfy 
              the following two conditions:  p{A)  =  1  and p(x)  = p(x0) + p(x 1)  for all x.  Such 
              measures are called  measures  on the  binary tree.  We consider also  semimeasures 
              on the binary tree, which are probability measures on the space E of all finite and 
              infinite binary sequences.  They correspond to functions p such that p(A) = 1 and 
              p(x) ^ p(x0) +p(xl).  We consider also semimeasures on natural numbers, which are 
              defined as sequences {pi} of non-negative reals with YlienPi ^ 1-  ^              natural to
