                            3.3.  EFFECTIVELY NULL  SETS        63
            Now we are ready to give the definition of the Martin-Löf random sequence. 
         Assume that some computable measure ß on the set Q is fixed.
            Definition.  A sequence ш is called  Martin-Löf random  (ML-random)  with 
         respect to ß if u> does not belong to the largest effectively null set (with respect to 
         ß) provided by Theorem 28.
           Reformulation:  A sequence is Martin-Löf random if it does not belong to any 
         effectively null set.
           One more version:  A sequence ш is Martin-Löf random if the singleton {cj} is 
         not an effectively null set.
           A  digression:  terminology.  The  notion  of Martin-Löf randomness  is  a 
         refinement  of the  intuitive  idea  of a  “typical  sequence”.  One  could  say  that  a 
         sequence is  “typical”  if it does not have any regularities or special features which 
         separate it from most sequences.  (If somebody says that  “Mr. X is a typical math 
         professor”, she probably means that Mr. X has no special characteristics that make 
         him different from the majority of math professors.)  A “special feature” is a feature 
         that is possessed only by a negligible fraction of the objects considered (sequences). 
         For example, if a sequence ш starts with 0, this is not a special feature, since half 
         of the sequences start with 0.  On the other hand, if each other term of ш is zero, 
         this is indeed a special feature.
           This informal idea is implemented in the Martin-Löf definition:  a special fea­
         ture is a feature that corresponds to an effectively null set,  and therefore typical 
         sequences are sequences that do not belong to any effectively null set, i.e., Martin- 
         Löf random sequences.
           It would be more logical to use the word  “typical”  for Martin-Löf’s definition 
         and  reserve  the word  “random”  for a more general  intuitive notion  that  can  be 
         formalized in different ways  (and the idea of a typical sequence is one of them). 
         However, the attempts to introduce a new, more logical, terminology often make 
         the situation worse.  (Authors have to confess that this can be said about their own 
         attempts!)  And there is already a lot of confusion—the term  “random sequence” 
         is already used in different ways.
           So we keep the term Martin-Löf random sequence  (ML-random sequence) for 
        the definition given above and keep the general term random sequence for a vague 
        philosophical notion of randomness that needs additional clarification to become a 
        mathematical notion.  (End of digression.)
           The following statement is a trivial corollary of the Martin-Löf theorem; how­
        ever, it deserves careful consideration since it looks counterintuitive.
           Theorem  29.  A  set A  C  Q  is  an  effectively  null  set  if and  only  if all  its 
         elements are not Martin-Löf random (are non-typical).
           In particular, the set of all non-ML-random sequences is the largest effectively 
        null set, and the set of all ML-random sequences has measure 1.
           PROOF.  Indeed, any element of any effectively null set is not ML-random by 
        definition;  on  the other hand,  if all elements of some set  A  are not  ML-random, 
        then A is a subset of the largest effectively null set, and therefore A is an effectively 
        null set.                                               □
