            188                       5.  M ONOTONE  COMPLEXITY
            and r] is random with respect to the conditional distribution (for the first coordinate 
            fixed to £).  However,  there are several problems here.  First,  one needs to define 
            the conditional distribution (which can be done, as Hayato Takahashi has shown); 
            second, the conditional distribution is not necessarily computable, so it is not clear 
            what the randomness means here.  Some results in this direction are proven in his 
            papers  [191,  192];  the detailed exposition of these results and a counterexample 
            constructed by Bauwens can be found in [7].
                5.9.5.  Kucera—Gåcs theorem.  Let us return to the question that we have 
            already discussed.  A probabilistic machine is given.  Which sequences seem to be 
            the  plausible  outputs  of this  machine  (or,  better  to  say,  which  sequences do  we 
            agree to believe are generated by this machine)?  This question is meaningful for 
            an  arbitrary  machine,  even  for  the  machine  that  generates finite sequences with 
            positive probability.
                More formally, consider a computable probability distribution /r on the set Г2 
            and  computable  continuous  mapping  /:  E  —>  E.  Together  they  generate some 
            output  distribution  v  that  is  the  image  of /r  under  /.  Now  we  do  not  assume 
            that  v  is  concentrated  on  infinite sequences,  so we get  an lower semicomputable 
            semimeasure v that is not necessarily a measure.
                On the other hand, we consider the images (under /) of sequences that are ML- 
            randoin with respect to fi.  The question is,  Can we characterize this set in terms 
            of vl  It would be nice if, say, the Levin-Schnorr type characterization in terms of 
            continuous a priori probability a(-) were possible (it would say that a sequence w is 
            in the image of /r under /  if and only if the ratio a(x)/u(x) is bounded for prefixes
            X   oj).
                Unfortunately,  the arguments  we  used  for the  case when  /   is  almost  every­
            where defined  (and  v is a computable measure)  do not work anymore  (there are 
            problems in both directions).  Moreover, as was shown in [14], the image cannot be 
            characterized in terms of v.
                189       Show that there are two computable mappings /1, /2 : E —> E that gener­
            ate the same output semimeasure (as the image of the uniform measure on Г2) but 
            the images Д (R) and /2 (R) of the set R of ML-random sequences (with respect to 
            the uniform measure) are different.
                (Hint:  Both machines for Д and /2 generate only zero bits (finitely or infinitely 
            many)  at  their  outputs.  Such  a  mapping  (restricted  on  Г2)  is  determined  by  a 
            decreasing sequence of effectively open sets  A\  D  A2  D  • • •  where A{  is the set 
            of inputs  where  г  or  more  output  zeros  are  generated.  The  image  semimeasure 
            is  determined  by  the  (uniform)  measures  of Ai.  So  it  remains  to  construct  two 
            sequences of sets with the same measures such that the intersection of one sequence 
            contains  a  random  element  and  the  intersection  of the  other  one  does  not.  To 
            construct the first one, consider a random number и that is a limit of a computable 
            increasing sequence r* of rational numbers, and consider the intervals (ri,u> + 1 /%). 
            For the second one consider the sequence of intervals of the same length with empty 
            intersection, say, with left endpoint 0.  Or take centered intervals whose intersection 
            contains only the non-random number 1/2.)
