                                       14.7.  A  BIT  OF  PHILOSOPHY                    453
            complexity of a string x is the lower bound for its compressed size for compressors 
            without loss of information.  The closer to this bound the compressed size is the 
            better the compression method is (for files from a practically important family of 
            files).
                This applies to lossy data compression.  What about loss compression?  Nowa­
            days  many  compression  techniques  are  used  that  discard  certain  not  important 
            parts of the information that is being encoded.  Such methods allow us to decrease 
            the compressed size below Kolmogorov complexity.
                For  instance,  assume  that  we  are given  an  old  phonograph  record  that  has 
            scratches in random places on the record.  These scratches produce peaks on the 
            waveform of the sound (the two-dimensional plot of sound pressure as a function of 
            time).  Thus the original information has been distorted.  Due to this distortion the 
            Kolmogorov complexity of the record has been much increased (if there are many 
            scratches).  However,  if we care only about the general impression of playing the 
            record, the exact spots of the scratches are not important.  It is enough to store in 
            the compressed file only the general character of the scratches.
                In  other words,  our  phonograph record is  an element  of a large  family that 
            consists  of all  the  records with about  the same number of scratches of the same 
            type.  In this way we obtain a two-part description of the record:  the first part is 
            the description of this set (the clean record and statistical parameters of the noise) 
            and the second part identifies the exact spots of the scratches.  If our method of 
            compression discards the second part, then after decompression we will get another 
            record.  That  record  will  be  obtained  from  the  original  clean  record  by  adding 
            another noise with the same statistical parameters.  One can hope that the audience 
            will not notice the change.  Besides, if the decompressing program does not add any 
            noise  at  all to  the  clean record,  thus  “de-noising”  the record,  then we obtain an 
            even  better  result  (unless  of course  we  are  interested  in  listening  to  an  ancient 
            phonograph instead of listening to music).
               The statement of Problem 369 can be interpreted as follows using this analogy. 
            Assume that a string x was obtained from an unknown string y of the same length 
            by  adding a noise.  That  is,  for some  known natural number r the string x was 
            obtained by a random sampling in a radius-r Hamming ball with the center y.  We 
           want to de-noise x and to this end we are looking for a Hamming ball of radius r 
            that provides the minimal length two-part description for x (that is, the Hamming 
            ball of minimal complexity).  Assume that we have succeeded and such a ball is 
            found.  With high probability the randomness deficiency of x in the original ball 
            is  small.  By  Problem  369  (for the family of all  Hamming balls of radius r)  the 
            randomness deficiency of x in the ball we have found is small as well.  Thus the 
           second part in the found two-part description for x has no useful information.  In 
           other words,  the center of the ball we have found is a de-noised version of x  (in 
            particular, we have also removed the noise present in y).
               Here is another example of lossy compression via Kolmogorov complexity.  Kol­
            mogorov complexity of a high-resolution picture of a sand-dune is very large, as it 
            identifies  the locations of all individual grains of sand,  which are random.  For a 
           person who looks at that picture, the picture is just a typical element of the set of 
            all similar pictures, where the sand-dune is at the same place, has the same form, 
            and consists of the sand of the same type,  while individual sand grains may oc­
           cupy arbitrary spots.  If our compressor stores only the description of this large set
