                                                3.  MARTIN-LÖF  RANDOMNESS
               60
                    However, for non-computable sequences the situation could be different:
                     72  Prove that there exists a sequence u> E S7 such that singleton  {w}  is not
               an effectively null set.
                    (Hint:  Consider all computable functions x that satisfy the second condition of 
               the definition of an effectively null set.  There are countably many such functions. 
               For each of them consider the largest set  A that satisfies requirement  (1)  of the 
               definition (i.e., the intersection of the unions of coverings over all e).  This set is an 
               (effectively) null set, and the union of a countable family of those sets is a null set. 
               Therefore, there exists a sequence cu which does not belong to this union.)
                    Let us note that the statement of this problem is a straightforward corollary 
               of the Martin-Löf theorem on the existence of the largest effectively null set (The­
               orem 28, p. 61) proved later in this section,  and the hint follows its proof.  As we 
               will see later,  the set  {w}  is an effectively null set if and only if the sequence ui is 
               not  “Martin-Löf random”.
                    It is easy to construct a non-computable sequence u> such that the singleton {w} 
               is an effective null set.  Indeed, consider any sequence of the form w = 0?0?0?0 • ■ • 
               (each second term is zero, the rest is arbitrary).  Let us show that {w} is indeed an 
               effectively null set.  To find a covering with total measure 2“n, consider all strings 
               of length 2n that are formed by n arbitrary bits interleaved with n zeros (as in u>). 
               There are 2n  strings  of this  form,  and each  corresponds  to  an interval of length 
               2-2n, so the total measure is 2“n.
                    In  fact  we  have  proved  a bit  more:  the  set  of all  sequences  that  have  only 
               zeros at even positions is an effectively null set.  Therefore, each of its subsets  (in 
               particular, every singleton) is an effectively null set.
                    Let us now return to the definition of an effectively null set and separate the 
               requirements used in this definition.  We say that a computable function x is “regu­
               lar”  if is satisfies the requirement (2).  The requirement (1) then says that for every 
              rational e > 0 the set A is a subset of the union
                                               ^х(е,0) C ^x(£,l) LI Г2x(e,2)     •
              Therefore, a regular function  “serves”  all the subsets of the set
                                      (^a;(e,0) L ^x(e,l) L    x(e,2) ' ' ' )         ^ x(e,i)•
                                  £>0                                         £>0  i
              So for each (computable) regular function x we get an effectively null set  (defined 
              by the formula above),  and effectively null sets  are all these sets  (for  all regular 
              functions) and all their subsets, and that’s all.
                   Before we  formulate the  Martin-Löf theorem,  let  us  give  the  definition  of a 
               computable measure on the set Q.
                   A real number a is called computable if there exists an algorithm that computes 
              rational approximations to a with any given precision.  Formally, a is a computable 
              real if there exists a computable function e h-> a(e) defined on all positive rational 
              numbers and having rational values such that
                                                        I a — a(e)|  < £
              for all rational £ > 0.
                    73          Show that we get an equivalent definition if we additionally require that 
              all  approximations  given  by  a  are  approximations  from  below,  i.e.,  a(e)  <  a 
              for all £.
