                                         5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
             124
             Then for each n the function x    u(x, n) is a semimeasure in the sense of Chapter 4
             (the sum of values does not exceed 1), and we get the desired inequality.
                 (h) For a given computable (infinite) sequence w of zeros and ones, consider a 
             probabilistic algorithm that ignores random bits and just computes and sends to 
             the output the sequence u>  (bit by bit).  The corresponding semimeasure equals 1 
             on any prefix of w; therefore, the universal semimeasure (whose logarithm is the a 
             priori complexity) of all prefixes of w is greater than some positive constant.
                 The converse implication is a bit more complicated.  Assume that the a priori 
            probabilities  (the values of the universal semimeasure a on the binary tree) of all 
            prefixes of u> are greater than some rational e > 0.  Consider the set В of all binary 
            strings x such that a(x) > e.  The set В contains all prefixes of w and is a subtree (if 
            some string is in J3, then all its prefixes are in В).  Moreover, any prefix-free subset 
            of В (that does not contain a sequence and its prefix at the same time) has at most 
             \/e  elements  (since  the  corresponding events  are disjoint,  their total  probability 
            does not exceed 1).  Finally, the set В is enumerable (having more and more precise 
            approximations to a(x) from below, we eventually discover all elements in B).
                 These properties of В  are sufficient to conclude that the sequence u> is com­
            putable.  Indeed, consider the maximal (having the maximal cardinality) prefix-free 
            subset xi,... ,xn of B.  For each of Xi consider all its continuations that belong to 
            B.  All of them (for a given г) are prefixes of one sequence; otherwise, we can find 
            two inconsistent strings and replace Xi by them (and this is not possible, since the 
            subset is maximal).
                 So for each i we have a (finite or infinite)  branch in В going through Xi, and 
            it  is  computable since В is enumerable.  The sequence w is one of these branches 
            (otherwise we could add a sufficiently long prefix of u> to the set that is maximal—a 
            contradiction).
                 (i)  Consider the probabilistic machine that corresponds to the maximal semi-
            computable semimeasure on the binary tree,  and apply function /  to its output. 
            This composition is a probabilistic machine as defined in Chapter 4, and it remains 
            to compare it to the universal machine that generates the maximal lower semicom- 
            putable semimeasure on N (the logarithm of this semimeasure is К + 0(1)).          □
                Note that the a priori complexity is quite different from the complexities already 
            known (plain and prefix complexities).  Its definition uses a tree structure that exists 
            on the set of finite binary strings, and algorithmic transformations that ignore this 
            structure can increase the a priori complexity more than by 0 (1).
                 127  Show that one can find a string x that has an 0(1) a priori complexity 
            but  xR  (reversed  x)  has  arbitrarily  large  complexity.  (Formally:  there  exists  c 
            such that for every n there is a string x satisfying the inequalities KA (x) < c and 
            KA (xR) > n.)
                 (Hint:  The string x can be of the form 100 • • • 0.)
                So (unlike for plain or prefix complexity) we cannot define the a priori complex­
            ity of arbitrary constructive objects (pairs, graphs, finite sets, etc.) since it depends 
            on the encoding.
                The difference between the a priori complexity of a string x of length n and 
            other complexities of x  (plain,  prefix)  is still  O(logn).  However,  it  is  important 
            that n stands for the length of x,  not  for  the complexity of x.  (For example,  if
