                                                                  5.5.   MONOTONE COMPLEXITY                                                              139
                    e independent.  Knowing in advance how many strategies we want to compose, we 
                     decide what should be the initial value of e and 5 (for the first strategy in a row). 
                    In the sequel we assume that the parameters of the composed games are chosen in 
                    this way and return to our task:  achieve к > 2, if the e-neighbor hood is measured 
                    at the end of the composed game (for some e), and we are free to choose Ö used to 
                    measure the ^-neighborhood of the unavailable space in the composed game.
                           We show how Client can achieve some к > 2 for arbitrary e, for every a = me 
                    and for small enough 5, with root request at most a and for newly grayed area at 
                    least a (so ß = a), if a tree is chosen in a suitable way.
                           Our construction is similar to Example 2.  The root has  (as before) m sons, 
                    but now has more grandsons.  Let us agree that each son of the root has 12 sons (it 
                    will be enough).  Instead of making direct requests for the grandsons (as was done 
                    in Example 2), we recursively call the strategies described above, so each grandson 
                    has a subtree of height 2 (its width should be big enough for all values of e used in 
                    the subgames), and the total height of the tree is 4.
                           At each moment we look at the sons of the root and consider those of them 
                    who currently do not have a reserved interval;  by a reserved interval for vertex x 
                    we mean an interval of size e that contains some space allocated to x and which 
                    does not contain any space allocated to vertices that are not descendants of a;, as 
                    well as any points of the unavailable set  (specified at the beginning of the game). 
                    In other words,  an interval is reserved when  (1)  its part  is  already allocated for 
                    x,  and  (2)  this  interval may still be used for x if the request  for x increases and 
                    becomes e.  (Note that the reserved interval may disappear later if some its part 
                    is  allocated  to  another vertex.)  So we consider some son x that does not have a 
                    reserved interval, take some son у of x (not used before for the same purpose), and 
                    run a strategy with amplification factor 1.5 and a = e/8 on у.  The request for у 
                    made by this strategy is at most a = e/8 and (because of final adjustment, see the 
                    paragraph before Example 3 on p.  138) at least a/1.5 = e/12.  After that  (when 
                    the strategy wins its game) look at x again:  maybe now x has a reserved interval, 
                    and maybe not.  In the latter case,  we can  apply  the same trick to some  other 
                    son of x—or,  if we wish,  we can select some other root’s son that does not have 
                    a reserved interval—both options are OK.  In any case,  we repeat this procedure 
                    until all sons of the root have their reserves.  One additional precaution is needed: 
                    if the request for some root’s son exceeds (7/8)e, we just increase its request up to 
                    e (which creates a reserved interval automatically) to avoid the possibility that the 
                    request increases by e/8 and becomes greater than e.  Each call of the 1.5-strategy 
                    increases the request of the corresponding son of the root by at least e/12, so we 
                    never need more than 12 sons for each son of the root.  For the same reason, the 
                    total number of these calls is bounded by 12m.
                           What do we achieve by all these tricks?  For each son of the root look at the 
                    last moment when we considered this son and finally got a reserved interval for it. 
                    This reserved interval has size £ and it was not a reserved interval before the last 
                    step.  Since it became a reserved interval (and continued to be a reserved interval), 
                    it contains no points of the unavailable set and no space allocated to other vertices 
                    (except for the descendants of x).  Since it was not a reserved interval before, it had 
                    no space allocated for x,  and therefore it was completely empty.  The conclusion: 
                    the space that was grayed during previous calls of the  1.5-strategies  is  not  part 
                    of the  reserved  intervals.  This  space  already  gives  us  1.5-amplification,  and  by
