        180             5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
          We have constructed several examples of sequences that are not random with 
       respect to any computable measure.  But one may ask a different question:  Is there 
       a sequence that is not Turing-equivalent to any ML-random sequence?  Here we do 
       not  need to specify a computable measure,  since all the measures have the same 
       degrees of random sequences (see above).  This is possible, too:
          183    Prove  that  there  exists  a  non-computable  oracle  A  such  that  no  A- 
       computable sequence is random with respect to a computable measure (unless the 
       sequence is computable and the measure has an atom).
          (Hint:  First,  we  may  consider  only  the  uniform  measure.  Then  we  use  a 
       diagonal construction to get the required set  A.  First,  for every i we can add a 
       prefix of A that guarantees that A is not computed by the ith machine.  On the 
       other hand,  for  every i  we  can  add  a prefix  that  guarantees  that  either  (1)  the 
       ith machine with oracle A computes a non-total sequence, or (2) the ith machine 
       computes a sequence that has a prefix with large deficiency.  Indeed, if there is some 
       extension of the current oracle prefix that allows the ith machine to compute a long 
       sequence, choose the first such extension, and the corresponding long sequence will 
       have small complexity; if there is no such extension, the function computed by the 
       ith machine is guaranteed not to be total.)
          The  statement  of the  last  problem  is  also  a  corollary  of several  more  diffi­
       cult  results that are not included in our book.  First, V. Vyugin has shown  [215] 
       that there exists a probabilistic machine that with positive probability generates se­
       quences with this property (sequences that are not Turing-equivalent to any random 
       sequence).  This sounds like a paradox:  The property implies that for a sequence 
       a there is no computable measure that  “explains”  a  (makes a  random with re­
       spect to this measure).  On the other hand, there is a machine that generates such 
       “unexplainable”  sequences with positive probability—so why not take the output 
       distribution of this machine as an explanation?  The solution of this paradox:  The 
       output distribution is a semimeasure, not a measure (the machine generates finite 
       sequences with positive probability).
          There is another, completely different, argument:  We can derive the statement 
       of the problem from recent  (but already classical)  results about  low sets  (see the 
       books of A. Nies [147], R. Downey and D. Hirschfeldt [49]; a simplified exposition 
       can be found in [20]).  These results say that there is an enumerable undecidable set 
       A that is low for Martin-Löf randomness:  Adding A as an oracle does not change 
       the set  of ML-random sequences  (and it  also does not  change prefix complexity, 
       but this is not needed now).  For this A no А-computable sequence can be random 
       (since it is not А-random).  In this way we get a set A with an additional property 
       (A is enumerable).
          So for many different reasons there exists a sequence such that no ML-random 
       sequence is reducible to it.  In the other direction the situation is different:  Every 
       sequence  is  Turing-reducible  to  some  ML-random  (with  respect  to  the  uniform 
       distribution) sequence; see below Theorem 126, p.  189.  The proof of this theorem 
       implies also that every Turing degree above O' (every Turing degree that computes 
       the halting problem) contains a random sequence; see Problem 190 (p.  190).
          184   Prove that there exist a sequence ш that is Turing-equivalent to a uni­
       formly ML-random sequence, but ш itself is not random with respect to any com­
       putable measure.
