                                         5.9.   RANDOMNESS  WITH  RESPECT TO  DIFFERENT  MEASURES                                                         191
                           11911 Using this argument, prove that for any sequence a there exists an ML- 
                    random sequence ш such that a is Turing-reducible to uj,  and this reduction needs 
                    only an n + o(n)-bit prefix of uj to generate an n-bit prefix of a.
                           (Hint :  Instead of the binary tree, one may use in the proof the tree of branching 
                    factor 2mi.  Then we need the convergence of the product (1 — 2mi )2ki), i.e., of the 
                    series 2mi~ki.  We may let m* = i and k{ = i + 2 log г.)
                           One may speculate about the  “philosophical meaning”  of this theorem as fol­
                    lows:  For any sequence a we can a posteriori explain how it could appear during 
                    an experiment.  Indeed, for a random uj  this is the philosophical assumption,  and 
                    the transformation /  is computable and therefore can be implemented.
                           The Kucera-Gâcs theorem could look strange if we compare it with another 
                    result:  If some  sequence  a  has  a  positive  probability  to  be  computable  with  a 
                    random oracle (the set of sequences that compute a has a positive measure), then 
                    a is computable.  To see why this result is true, note that the set of all oracles that 
                    compute a is a union of sets of oracles that compute a via some oracle machine M 
                    (the union is taken over all M).  So one of these sets has positive measure, the a 
                    priori probability of a is positive, and a is computable.  So for a non-computable a 
                    the set of all oracles that compute a is a null set.  On the other hand, the Kucera- 
                    Gâcs theorem says that there exists a random sequence that computes a.  There is 
                    no contradiction here; it just means that the null set in question is not an effectively 
                    null set.
