                                           FACE TWO:  CHAOTICNESS                                471
             for  such  a  classification.  Now  the corresponding mathematical  theory is  usually 
             called Kolmogorov complexity theory.
                 The main idea is simple and natural:  complexity of an object can be mea­
             sured  by  the  length  of  its  shortest  description.  Each  object  has  a  long 
             description, however a complex object cannot have a short description.
                 Let Y be the set of all objects we consider,  and let X be a set of all possible 
             descriptions  of those  objects.  Let  us  recall  that  \x\  stands  for  the  length  of x. 
             According to what we said, the complexity of an object y, denoted by Comp(t/), is 
             defined by the formula
                                 Comply) = min{|x| : x is a description of y}.
                                               X
             If an object y has no description at all, its complexity is infinite (the minimum of 
             the empty set is defined as infinity).
                 Of course, we need some uniform way to measure the length of a description, it 
             would be unfair to say that something can be easily described in Chinese because 
             only  one  glyph  is  needed,  and  has  only  a  complicated  English  description  that 
             consists of several dozen letters.  So we assume that all descriptions are presented 
             as binary strings.  In other words, we assume in the sequel that X = E.
                 The set  of all  pairs  (x,y)  where  x  describes  y,  can  be  called  a  language  of 
             descriptions or a description language.  Note that (for some description language) 
             some object y may have many descriptions.  We may also consider description lan­
             guages where the same x can describe several objects.  For example, the expression 
             “a string of zeros” can be considered as a description of all such strings, and we may 
             even consider an expression  “a bit string”  as a description of all binary strings.9
                 What  has  been  discussed  above  was  a  preparation  for  the  following  formal 
             definition.  Consider an arbitrary subset E in the Cartesian product E x Y, called 
             a description language.  If (x, y)  G E,  we say that the string x is a description of 
             the object y.  The complexity Compfî of an object y with respect to the description 
             language E is defined as
                                      Comp E(y) = min {| ж I :  (x,y) G E}.
                                                     X
             (Again, the minimum of the empty set is infinite.)
                 For a language E — ExY where every string ж is a description of every object 
             y, the complexity of all objects equals zero, since the empty string is a description 
             of every object.  Such a description language is formally allowed but will not appear 
             in the classes of description languages considered in the sequel.
                 Imagine two description languages with the following property: to get a descrip­
             tion of some object у for the second language, we take its description for the first 
             language and repeat it twice.  Evidently the second description language is worse, 
             since it provides descriptions that are twice as long, and we want the descriptions 
             to be short.
                 Formally speaking, we say that a description language A is not worse than a 
             description language В and write A ^ B, if there exists some constant c such that 
             CompA(t/) < CompB(y) + c for all y.
                 Consider natural languages as description languages.  Assume that for any pair 
             of natural languages there is a translation algorithm that converts any given text
                 9However, we should not go too far in this direction; otherwise, the notion of complexity will 
             be trivial.
