                                   5.8.  EFFECTIVE  HAUSDORFF  DIMENSION                     175
             in the definition of an effectively r'-null set:  there are 0(2rn)  terms  and each  is 
             (2~n)r  _ 2~r n5 so the sum is 0(2(-r~r )n), and we get a converging geometric series
                                                    2(r-r')ri'
                                                 71
             Deleting an initial part of this series (considering only strings of length N or more) 
             we make the sum arbitrarily small (when N is large enough).  At the same time our 
             assumption  (about  liminf)  guarantees that remaining intervals still form a cover 
             for to.  So one inequality is proved.
                 Going in the other direction, assume that {cj} has effective dimension less than r 
             for some rational r.  Let us show that the liminf does not exceed r.
                 By definition, for each rational e > 0 we can generate a sequence of intervals. 
            We know that one of them contains и and the sum of rth powers of the measures 
            does  not  exceed  e.  Let  us  do  this  for  e  —  1,1/2,1/4,....  In  this  way  we  get 
            a sequence of intervals that have finite sum of rth powers of their measures,  and 
            infinitely many of them cover 
                                          oj.  In other words, there exists a computable sequence 
            of intervals xo, x\, x2, ... such that:
                 •  J22~rl(Xi)  < oo;
                 • Xi is a prefix of uo for infinitely many i.
                 The first statement implies that m(i) ^ c2“w^^ for some c and for all i (where 
            m is the discrete a priori probability of natural numbers considered in Chapter 4). 
            Taking the logarithms, we get the bound for prefix complexity,
                                   K(xi) < K(i) + 0(1)      rl(xi) + 0(1)
            for all i.  Note also that the lengths of Xi tend to infinity (since the series is conver­
            gent), that X{ is a prefix of uo for infinitely many i and that the plain complexity does 
            not exceed the prefix one.  (The definition of liminf guarantees that if a sequence 
            has infinitely many terms that do not exceed r, its liminf does not exceed r.)    □
                1170 I Prove the following corollary:  for any real a  G  [0,1]  there exists a set 
            (and even a singleton) that has effective Hausdorff dimension a.
                 (Hint:  The complexity of an initial segment can be increased by adding random 
            bits and decreased by adding zeros.)
                 171  Prove that for an effectively closed subset of the Cantor space (this means 
            that the complement of this set is the union of an enumerable family of intervals) 
            the effective Hausdorff dimension coincides with the classical Hausdorff dimension.
                 (Hint:  Due to compactness, one may consider finite covers and search for them 
            effectively.)
                I  172 I  Find  the  (classical)  Hausdorff dimension  of the  Cantor set  (see  Prob­
            lem 167) using the previous problem and the characterization of effective dimension 
            in terms of singletons and Kolmogorov complexity.
                 173 Prove that for every real a G  [0,1] there exists a set that has (classical) 
            Hausdorff dimension a.
                 (Hint:  Consider the set of all sequences that have zeros at specified places.)
                 174        I  Prove  that  the  definition  of effective  Hausdorff dimension  of a  set  A 
            remains the same if we require the existence of a computable sequence of intervals 
            that has finite sum of rth powers of the measures and that covers each element of 
            A infinitely many times.
