                                          5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
             116
             the  answer  (given  already  in  one  of the  first  papers  on  algorithmic  information 
             theory,  [225]):
                 Theorem 75.  Let A  be a randomized algorithm of the described type,  and let 
             a  be the corresponding function.  Then
                 (a)  a(x) > 0 for all x\
                 (b)  a(A) = 1  (here A is the empty string)-,
                 (c)  a(x) ^ a(xO) + a(x 1) for every string x\
                 (d)  the function a is lower semicomputable.
                 The notion of the lower semicomputable (enumerable from below) sequence of 
             reals was defined in Section 4.1 (p. 75).  For the functions on strings the definition 
             is quite similar:  we require that a(x) = limia(x,i)  where a(x,i)  is a computable 
             function of two arguments x and i, defined for all strings x and for all non-negative 
             values of i; the values a(x,i) are rational numbers or — oo, and for every fixed x the 
             value a(x, i) increases as i increases.
                 PROOF.  The first three claims are obvious:
                 (a)  Probability is always non-negative.
                 (b) a (A) = 1 since the empty string is a prefix of any output.
                 (c) a(x) ^ a(xO) + a(x 1), since the events “the output starts with xO” and “the 
             output starts with xl” are disjoint subsets of the event  “the output starts with x”.
                 Note that inequality (c) can be strict; the difference a(x) — a(xO) — a(xl) is the 
             probability of the event  “the output is exactly the string x”  (no bits appear after 
             it).
                 (d) To prove that a is lower semicomputable, we need to construct approxima­
             tions from below for a(x) for any given string x.  Let us simulate the behavior of A 
             for all possible values of random bits.  During this simulation we discover values of 
             random bits that guarantee that output starts with x, i.e., we find some intervals I 
             in Q, such that Ä(co) starts with x for all со £ I.  The probability a(x) is the measure 
             of the union of all these intervals, and the approximation a(x,i) is the measure of 
             the union of all the intervals discovered up to the step i of the simulation.       □
                 A function a that is defined on all binary strings,  that takes real values and 
             satisfies  the  conditions  (a)-(d)  of Theorem  75,  is  called  a  lower semicomputable 
             semimeasure on the  binary tree.  It  is important not to mix semimeasures on the 
             binary tree  and  discrete  semimeasures  defined  in  Chapter 4 that  were  functions 
             on  natural  numbers  (or  on  binary  strings  that  correspond  to  natural  numbers) 
             and correspond to probabilistic algorithms that print some number (or string) and 
             terminate.  So we use the name  continuous semimeasures or semimeasures on the 
             binary tree  for functions that satisfy conditions  (a)-(c);  the condition  (d)  selects 
             among them the lower semicomputable continuous semimeasures.
                 1119 I  Show  that  continuous  semimeasures  (functions  that  satisfy  conditions 
             (a)-(c)) are in one-to-one correspondence with measures on the set E of all finite 
             and infinite binary sequences.  Given a semimeasure a, find the measure of the set 
             that consists of all infinite sequences that have prefix x.
                 (Answer:  The measure of this set is the limit of the (decreasing) sequence
                         <Tn —      a(y)\y is a string of length n that has prefix x}.
             Here an is defined for n ^ l(x) and equals a(x) if n = l(x).)
