                        FACE THREE:  TYPICALNESS      475
          A sequence that  is chaotic  for monotone description  languages  is called just 
        chaotic in the sequel.16  The chaoticness requirement can be written as follows:
                     3c Vn    Й2,..., an)  > n — c).
          We denote the class of all chaotic sequences by C.
          It  seems that the definition of chaoticness is a good approximation to the in­
       tuitive notion of randomness.  There are two reasons for this.
          First, every chaotic sequences satisfies the standard laws of probability theory 
        (such as the strong law of large numbers, the law of iterated logarithm etc.).
          Second, the class C of chaotic sequences coincides with another natural candi­
       date for the randomness definition, the class T of typical sequences (see below):
                             C = T.
       One could even use the names typical-chaotic or  chaotic-typical for the sequences 
       in  C  (=T)  and denote this class by CT or TC.  This class is a proper subclass 
       of the class S of all Kolmogorov stochastic sequences (as we said, the definition of 
       stochasticity seems to be too liberal to reflect our intuition of randomness):
                          TC C S,  ТС ф S.
                        Face three:  Typicalness
          What do we mean by saying that some object is  “typical”  for some category? 
       This means that it belongs to every reasonable majority of objects selected from 
       this category.  For example,  a typical human being has height less than 2 meters 
       (i.e.,  belongs  to  the majority of people who have height  less than  2 meters),  has 
       age at least 3 (i.e., belongs to the majority of people who are at least 3 years old), 
       etc.  The adjective  “reasonable”  is important here, since every object x is doomed 
       to fall outside the overwhelming majority of objects that differ from x.
          Our intuition says that every random object is typical.  But how can we clarify 
       the  latter  notion?  Let  us  give  a mathematical  definition of typicalness  for  a bit 
       sequence  (assuming the uniform distribution on infinite bit sequences that corre­
       sponds to a fair coin tossing).  As we have said,  for that we need to specify what 
       an  “overwhelming majority”  is in the set of all sequences and when that majority 
       is  “reasonable”.  Then the class of typical sequences is defined as the intersection 
       of all reasonable overwhelming majorities.
          A set of sequences forms an overwhelming majority if its complement is small, 
       so we need to define the notion of a small set.  Using the language of probability 
       theory, we can say that some set Q is small if the event “randomly chosen sequence 
       is in Q”  has probability zero.  In terms of measure theory small sets are just sets of 
       measure 0.  However, we want to have a more explicit definition.  It can be given in 
       the following way.
          A set Q is small if it can be covered by a countable family of balls whose total 
       volume is arbitrarily small.  In other terms, Q is small if for every natural m there 
       exists a sequence of binary strings
                        (x(l),x(2 ),...,z(n),...)
          16Since this property is equivalent to Martin-Löf randomness  (called typicalness in this ap­
       pendix), we do not use a different name in the main text of the book.
