                            5.9.  RANDOMNESS  WITH  RESPECT TO  DIFFERENT  MEASURES                       179
                    178 Prove that every generic sequence violates the Strong Law of Large Num­
              bers.
                   (Hint:  The set of binary strings of length greater that N that have more than 
              99% of ones is a dense effectively open set; the same is true for the set of strings 
              with more than 99% of zeros.)
                    179 Prove that no generic sequence is computable.
                   (.Hint:  The set of all sequences that differ from a given computable sequence is 
              open and everywhere dense.)
                   Note that  the definition of a generic sequence  (unlike randomness)  does not 
              refer to any measure.
                    180 Prove that a generic sequence is not  ML-random with respect  to  any 
              computable measure.
                   (Hint:  It  is enough to construct  an effectively open dense set that has small 
              measure.  This can be done by iteratively choosing a smaller half of an interval or 
              almost smaller if the halves have almost equal size.)
                   Zvonkin and Levin ([225], the remark after Definition 4.4) mentioned another 
              way to construct  a sequence that is not random with respect to any computable 
              measure.  They claim that it is easy to show that the characteristic sequence of 
              the universal enumerable set  is not ML-random with respect  to any computable 
              measure.  They don’t say what kind of universality is needed, but indeed one can 
              find an enumerable set with this property:
                    181  Show that there exists an enumerable set whose characteristic sequence 
              is not random with respect to any computable measure.
                   (Hint:  The complexity of the prefixes of every characteristic sequence of an 
              enumerable set is logarithmic; it remains to guarantee that any computable measure 
              of the prefixes decreases fast.  This can be done as follows.  We split N into countably 
              many arithmetic sequences and devote zth of them to an ith computable measure; 
              our goal is that the sequence of bits appearing at these places is not random with 
              respect to the projection of the zth measure on the corresponding coordinates.  It 
              can be done by choosing a direction where measure decreases fast.  (Then we use 
              Theorem 123.)  Since we do not know whether the ith algorithm indeed computes 
              a computable measure, we get an enumerable set, not a decidable one.)
                   It is interesting that not every enumerable set has this property:
                    182 Construct an enumerable undecidable set whose characteristic function 
              is ML-random with respect to some computable measure.
                   (Hint  (L.  Bienvenu):  Let  a*  be  a computable sequence  of rational  numbers 
              that is dense in [0,1].  Consider a computable mapping of Q, to itself:  a sequence 
              a is interpreted as a binary fraction in  [0,1]  and mapped to a sequence uj where 
              u>i  =  1  if a{  < a and щ = 0 if    > a.  (If a is one of the a*, then u>i is undefined.) 
              This mapping is almost everywhere defined (with respect to the uniform measure); 
              the  image of the uniform  measure is therefore a computable measure on fl,  and 
              the image of a lower semicomputable ML-random real is a sequence that is ML- 
              random with respect to the image measure and at the same time is a characteristic 
              sequence of an enumerable undecidable set.  (To prove undecidability, we use that 
              ai  are dense in [0,1].)  See Sections 5.7 and 5.9.3.)
