                 A.5   Bridge-comparison Questions
                 Thetop-3popularentitiesonWikipediaandWikidataarehuman,taxon,andﬁlm. Inthistypeofquestion,
                 wefocusedonthecombinationbetweenhumanandﬁlm. Table12presentsthecombinationbetweenthe
                 relations from the two entities human and ﬁlm in our dataset.
                                         Relation 1                   Relation 2
                                         director                     date of birth
                                         director                     date of death
                                         director                     country of citizenship
                                         producer                     date of birth
                                         producer                     date of death
                                         producer                     country of citizenship
                                          Table 12: Bridge-comparison question’s information.
                   For each row in Table 12, we have several ways to ask a question. For instance, in the ﬁrst row, with
                 the combination of the two relations director and date of birth, we have various ways to ask a question,
                 as showninTable13. Toavoidambiguouscases,weensuredthateachﬁlmweusedhasonlyonedirector
                 or one producer. A total of 62 templates was obtained for this type of question.
                                Templates
                                Whichﬁlmhasthedirector born ﬁrst, #name or #name?
                                Whichﬁlmwhosedirectorwasbornﬁrst,#nameor#name?
                                Whichﬁlmhasthedirector who was born ﬁrst, #name or #name?
                                Whichﬁlmhasthedirector born earlier, #name or #name?
                                Whichﬁlmhasthedirector who was born earlier, #name or #name?
                                Whichﬁlmwhosedirectorisyounger, #name or #name?
                                Whichﬁlmhasthedirector born later, #name or #name?
                                Whichﬁlmhasthedirector who was born later, #name or #name?
                                Whichﬁlmhasthedirector who is older than the other, #name or #name?
                                Whichﬁlmhasthedirector who is older, #name or #name?
                                          Table 13: Templates of Bridge-comparison questions.
                 A.6   Generate Data
                 The algorithms for generating comparison questions and bridge questions are described in Algorithm 1
                 and Algorithm 2, respectively.
                 A.7   Post-process Generated Data
                 For the bridge questions, we created the data from the two triples (e,r ,e ) and (e ,r ,e ). When we
                                                                                       1   1        1  2   2
                 have another triple (e,r ,e  ) that has the same entity and the property with the ﬁrst triple, it becomes
                                         1  1∗
                 an ambiguous case. Hence, we discarded all such cases in our dataset based on the information from
                 Wikidata.
                   For the comparison questions, when a question is asked for comparing two entities about numerical
                 values and the values of the two entities are equal, we remove it.
                                                                  6624
