                • Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
                 paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
              6. Experimental Setting/Details
               Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyper-
               parameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
               results?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We have provided the training details in the paper.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • Theexperimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
                 that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
                • The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
                 material.
              7. Experiment Statistical Significance
               Question: Doesthepaperreporterrorbarssuitablyandcorrectlydefinedorotherappropriate
               information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
               Answer: [No]
               Justification: The paper does not provide this.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confi-
                 dence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
                 the main claims of the paper.
                • The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
                 example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
                 run with given experimental conditions).
                • The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
                 call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)
                • The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).
                • It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
                 of the mean.
                • It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
                 preferablyreporta2-sigmaerrorbarthanstatethattheyhavea96%CI,ifthehypothesis
                 of Normality of errors is not verified.
                • For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
                 figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
                 error rates).
                • If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
                 they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
              8. Experiments Compute Resources
               Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the com-
               puter resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
               the experiments?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We provide the computer resources.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster,
                 or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
                               25
