               Justification: We discuss the limitation in Appendix.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper has no limitation while the answer No means that
                 the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper.
                • The authors are encouraged to create a separate "Limitations" section in their paper.
                • The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to
                 violations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings,
                 modelwell-specification, asymptoticapproximationsonlyholdinglocally). Theauthors
                 should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the
                 implications would be.
                • The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was
                 only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often
                 depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated.
                • Theauthors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach.
                 For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution
                 is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be
                 used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle
                 technical jargon.
                • The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms
                 and how they scale with dataset size.
                • If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to
                 address problems of privacy and fairness.
                • While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by
                 reviewers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover
                 limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best
                 judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an impor-
                 tant role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers
                 will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations.
              3. Theory Assumptions and Proofs
               Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and
               a complete (and correct) proof?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We have provided proof in the Appendix.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include theoretical results.
                • All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and cross-
                 referenced.
                • All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems.
                • The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if
                 they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short
                 proof sketch to provide intuition.
                • Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented
                 byformal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material.
                • Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced.
              4. Experimental Result Reproducibility
               Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main ex-
               perimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions
               of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We have provide the information for reproduce the results.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                               23
