                • Released models that have a high risk for misuse or dual-use should be released with
                 necessary safeguards to allow for controlled use of the model, for example by requiring
                 that users adhere to usage guidelines or restrictions to access the model or implementing
                 safety filters.
                • Datasets that have been scraped from the Internet could pose safety risks. The authors
                 should describe how they avoided releasing unsafe images.
                • Werecognize that providing effective safeguards is challenging, and many papers do
                 not require this, but we encourage authors to take this into account and make a best
                 faith effort.
             12. Licenses for existing assets
               Question: Are the creators or original owners of assets (e.g., code, data, models), used in
               the paper, properly credited and are the license and terms of use explicitly mentioned and
               properly respected?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We cite existing papers and url.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not use existing assets.
                • The authors should cite the original paper that produced the code package or dataset.
                • The authors should state which version of the asset is used and, if possible, include a
                 URL.
                • The name of the license (e.g., CC-BY 4.0) should be included for each asset.
                • For scraped data from a particular source (e.g., website), the copyright and terms of
                 service of that source should be provided.
                • If assets are released, the license, copyright information, and terms of use in the
                 package should be provided. For popular datasets, paperswithcode.com/datasets
                 has curated licenses for some datasets. Their licensing guide can help determine the
                 license of a dataset.
                • For existing datasets that are re-packaged, both the original license and the license of
                 the derived asset (if it has changed) should be provided.
                • If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to
                 the asset’s creators.
             13. NewAssets
               Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation
               provided alongside the assets?
               Answer: [No]
               Justification: The models trained by us can not be launched. However, we give the details of
               training these models.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not release new assets.
                • Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their
                 submissions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license,
                 limitations, etc.
                • The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose
                 asset is used.
                • At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either
                 create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file.
             14. Crowdsourcing and Research with Human Subjects
               Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper
               include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as
               well as details about compensation (if any)?
               Answer: [NA]
               Justification: The paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects.
                               27
