                        NON-COMPUTABILITY OF C AND BERRY’S PARADOX              9
           randomness deficiency is close to  1/2.  This translation implies the original state­
          ment since most of the strings have small randomness deficiency.  We will see later 
          that actually these formulations are equivalent.
              If we insist  on  drawing a strict  borderline between  random and non-random 
          objects,  we have to consider infinite sequences instead of strings.  The notion of 
          randomness for infinite sequences of zeros and ones was defined by Kolmogorov’s 
          student P. Martin-Löf (he came to Moscow from Sweden). We discuss it in Section 3. 
          Later C. Schnorr and L. Levin found a characterization of randomness in terms of 
          complexity:  an infinite binary sequence is random if and only if the randomness 
          deficiency of its prefixes is bounded by a constant.  This criterion,  however,  uses 
          another version of Kolmogorov complexity called monotone complexity.
                       Non-computability of C and Berry’s paradox
              Before discussing applications of Kolmogorov complexity, let us mention a fun­
          damental problem that reappears in any application.  Unfortunately, the function C 
          is not computable:  there is no algorithm that given a string x finds its Kolmogorov 
          complexity.  Moreover, there is no computable non-trivial (unbounded) lower bound 
          for C.
              Theorem 6.  Let к  be  a  computable  (not necessarily  total)  function from £ 
          to  N.  (In  other words,  к  is  an  algorithm that  terminates  on some  binary strings 
          and returns  natural  numbers  as  results.)  If к  is  a  lower  bound for Kolmogorov 
          complexity,  that  is,  k(x)  ^  C(x)  for  all x  such  that  k(x)  is  defined,  then  к  is 
          bounded:  all its values do not exceed some constant.
              The proof of this theorem is a reformulation of the so-called Berry’s paradox. 
          This paradox considers
                  the minimal natural number that cannot be defined by at most 
                  fourteen English words.
          This phrase has exactly fourteen words and defines that number.  Thus we get a 
          contradiction.
              Following  this  idea,  consider  the first  binary  string  whose  Kolmogorov  com­
          plexity is greater than  a given number N.  By definition, its complexity is greater 
          than N.  On the other hand, this string has a short description that includes some 
          fixed amount of information plus the binary notation of N  (which requires about 
          log2 N bits), and the total number of bits needed is much less than N for large N. 
          That would be a contradiction if we knew how to effectively find this string given 
          its description.  Using the computable lower bound k, we can convert this paradox 
          into the proof.
              Proof.  Consider the function B(N) whose argument N is a natural number. 
          It is computed by the following algorithm:
                  perform  in  parallel  the  computations  k(A), k(0),  fc(l),  k(00), 
                  k(01),  k( 10),  fc(ll),...  until some string x such that k(x)  > N 
                  appears; then return x.
              If the function к is unbounded, then the function В is total and k(B(N)) > N 
          by construction for every N.  As к is a lower bound for K, we have C(B(N)) > N. 
          On the other hand B(N) can be computed given the binary representation bin(iV)
