                               CHAPTER 6
                  General scheme for complexities
                          6.1.  Decision complexity
           We started with a plain Kolmogorov complexity C and then considered also 
        a prefix  complexity  К  and  a monotone  complexity  KM.  All three  complexities 
        were defined in terms of shortest descriptions, but the notion of a description was 
        different in each case.  For plain complexity the description modes (decompressors) 
        were just computable functions, for prefix complexity the description modes were 
        computable continuous mappings of type E —» Nj_, and for monotone complexity 
        the description modes were computable continuous mappings of type E —> E.
           To be uniform, we may use computable continuous mappings of type Nx —> Nx 
        for plain complexity.  Recall that topology on the set Nx  (and the set itself)  was 
        introduced in Section 4.4.3 (p. 89).  It is easy to see that there are two possibilities 
        for a continuous mapping /: Nx —> Nx:  either /(_L) is some natural number (and 
        not  _L)  and  the  mapping  is  a  constant  one,  or  /(_L)  =  _L  and  the  values  f(n) 
        for natural n can be arbitrary.  There is a one-to-one correspondence between the 
        mappings of the second type and partial functions of type N  —>  N if we use  _L 
        as  a  replacement  for  an  undefined value.  As  before,  computability  is  defined  in 
        the  following  natural  way:  the  mapping  /: Nx  —>  Nx  is  computable  if the  set 
        of pairs  (X, y)  such that  у  =4  f(x)  is enumerable.  All the constant  mappings are 
        computable, and for non-constant ones computability means that the corresponding 
        partial function is computable.  (Recall that a partial function of type N —> N is 
        computable if and only if its graph is enumerable.)
           So using this  “new” definition of a description mode (decompressor) as a com­
        putable continuous mapping of type Nx —> Nx, we get the same plain complexity. 
        Indeed, we add constant functions that map everything, including the element _L, 
        to  some constant  c,  but  they do  not  change complexity more than by 0(1).  (A 
        meticulous reader will stress that the function that  maps everything to c should 
        not be identified with the function that corresponds to a total function N —> N that 
        maps everything to c, since the latter one still maps _L to _L.)
           All  this  formalism,  however,  is  used  only  as  a  motivation  for  the  following 
        scheme  that  explains  the  origin  of the  complexities  considered  (see  Figure  15): 
        Each of the three complexities is obtained when we consider computable continu­
        ous mappings of the description space into the object space as description modes 
        (decompressors).
           This table has an empty cell; for this cell the description modes are computable 
        continuous mappings of type Nx —> E.  Let us consider the corresponding definition 
        in more detail; we call this complexity decision complexity and denote it by KR (the 
        notation KD was used too, but now KD is often used for the so-called distinguishing
                                   193
