                 458                  1.  C O M PLEXITY  AND  FOUNDATIONS  OF  PROBABILITY
                             on ne se serait jamais posé cette question précise avant d’avoir 
                             mesuré  l’angle.  Il  faut  bien  que  cet  angle  ait  une  valeur  et, 
                             qu’elle que soit sa valeur à un dixième de seconde près, on pour­
                             rait, après l’avoir mesurée, dire que la probabilité a priori, pour 
                             que  cette  valeur  soit  précisément  telle  qu’elle  est,  est  un  dix- 
                             millionième, et que c’est là un fait bien extraordinaire.  {...)
                                   La question est de savoir si l’on doit faire ces mêmes réserves 
                             dans le cas où l’on constate qu’un des angles du triangle formé 
                             par trois étoiles  a une valeur  remarquable  et  est,  par exemple, 
                             égal  à  l’angle  du  triangle  équilatéral  {...)  ou  à un  demi-angle 
                             droit  {...)  Voici  ce  que  l’on  peut  dire  à  se  sujet :  on  doit  se 
                             défier beaucoup de la tendance que l’on a à regarder comme re­
                             marquable une circonstance que l’on n’avait pas précisée  avant 
                             l’expérience,  car  le  nombre  des  circonstances  qui  peuvent  ap­
                             paraître comme remarquables,  à divers points de vue,  est  très 
                             considérable.3
                                                         Frequency approach
                      The most natural and common explanation of the notion of probability says 
                that  probability  is  the  limit  value  of  frequencies  observed  when  the  number  of 
                repetitions tends to infinity.  (This  approach was advocated as the only possible 
                basis for probability theory by Richard von Mises.)
                      However,  we  cannot  observe  infinite  sequences,  so  the  actual  application  of 
                this  definition  should  somehow  deal  with  finite  number  of repetitions.  And  for 
                a  finite  number  of repetitions  our  claim  is  not  so  strong:  We  do  not  guarantee 
                that frequency of tails for a fair coin is  exactly  1/2.  We say only that it is highly 
                 improbable that it deviates significantly from 1/2.  Since the words highly improbable 
                need  to  be  interpreted,  this  leads  to  some  kind  of logical  circle  that  makes  the 
                frequency approach much less convincing; to get out of this logical circle we need 
                some version of the Cournot principle.
                      3Let  us comment on Bertrand’s observation  (about an equilateral triangle formed by three 
                stars); it is related to the idea of a “round number”.  Consider a random integer between 1 000000 
                and 2 000 000.  The probability that it is equal to 1 342 517 is one over million; the probability that 
                it  is  equal  to  1  500  000,  is  also one over  million.  However,  the second  event  is often considered 
                as  something  less  likely  than  the  first  one.    This  is  because  nobody  considers  individually  a 
                number like 1 542 317.  It is considered as an example of some type of numbers, and if we change 
                accidentally one digit when copying such a number, it is hardly noticeable:  1  324 519 looks very 
                similar to 1  324 517.  A special effort is needed to check that the four numbers mentioned above 
                are different.
                      When a number like this appears as an angle measured in centesimal seconds, we do not ask 
                ourselves  what  is the  probability  that  this  angle is  exactly  13°42/51/(7  because we  never would 
                be interested in such a question before the measurement.  Of course, the angle should have some 
                value,  and  whatever  this  value  is  (up  to  a tenth of a second),  we  may  measure it  and say that 
                the  a  priori  probability  to  get  this  value  is  one  in  ten  million,  so  an  extraordinary  event  has 
                happened...
                      The question  is  whether the same reservations  apply  if one of the  angles  formed  by  three 
                starts has a remarkable value, for example,  is equal to the angle in the equilateral triangle...  or 
                the half of the  right  angle...  What  can we say about  that?  One should  try  hard to avoid  the 
                temptation to consider some event not fixed  before the  experiment, as a remarkable one, because 
                a lot of events could look remarkable from some viewpoint.
