        284    9.  FREQUENCY AND  GAME APPROACHES TO RANDOMNESS
       construction), and it remains to select one of them and find a sequence that satis­
       fies the inequality above but is not Mises-Church random.
          How can we do this?  Take a random sequence a,  and insert  zeros  at some 
       places.  These zeros will later form an unbalanced subsequence  (so the sequence 
       is  not  Mises-Church  random).  What  are  the requirements  for  the places  of ze­
       ros?  They  should  be  (1)  computable  (or  at  least  one  can  find  them  by  look­
       ing  at  the  previous  bits),  and  (2)  very  rare  (so  the  complexity  of prefixes  does 
       not  decrease significantly).  The  requirement  (2)  hints  that  the function  F:n  4  
       (place of the nth insertion) should grow faster than any computable function, but 
       how do we combine this with (1)?  The key idea is that the Kucera-Gåcs theorem 
       says that we can take arbitrary F and then find a sequence a that computes F. 
       There is a subtle point:  We are able to compute F having access to the entire a, 
       and only some prefix is available.  But this is not a problem—if the current prefix 
       of a is not enough to compute F, we just wait  (and place zero after the value of 
       F is computed; if this place is farther than we planned, the better).  It remains to 
       estimate prefix complexity.  Here we note that by adding zero at predictable places, 
       we do not change the prefix complexity of an initial segment.
          271 Provide the missing detail in this argument, and prove that there exist
       Schnorr random sequences that are not Mises-Church random.
          (These sequences will not be computable random, so we also know now that 
       Schnorr randomness is strictly weaker than computable randomness.)
          It turns out that Kurtz randomness also can be characterized in terms of mar­
       tingales.
          272  Prove that a sequence uj is not Kurtz random (Section 3.4, p. 70) if and 
       only if there  exists  a computable martingale  such that  computable converges to 
       infinity on prefixes of to  (an equivalent formulation is that there is a computable 
       monotone lower bound that is not bounded).
          (Hint:  The sets of small measure that cover u> and are finite unions of intervals 
       can be converted to martingales.  We know how long the prefix of u> should be for 
       this martingale to work, and this can be used to find a computable lower bound for 
       the final martingale.  On the other hand, knowing the martingale m and a length 
       I,  where the martingale should exceed some c,  we can consider all the strings of 
       length I where m exceeds c and get a finite cover of u> of measure at most 1/c.)
          This shows that Schnorr random sequences are Kurtz random (and the inclusion 
       is  strict,  since  some  Kurtz  random  sequences  do  not  satisfy even the  SLLN;  see 
       Problem 92, p. 70).
                 9.10.  Martingales and effective dimension
          In the previous section we have seen how the notions of null,  effectively null, 
       and Schnorr null sets can be translated into the language of martingales.  A similar 
       translation is possible for the notion of Hausdorff dimension.  In one sentence this 
       translation can be described as follows:  The smaller the dimension of a set is, the 
       faster martingales can grow on its elements.  (In this section we consider martingales 
       with respect to the uniform measure.)
          Let us start  from a statement  that  relates classical Hausdorff dimension  (no 
       algorithms) and martingales.
