                         5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
        118
          Then we fulfill the second requirement and let a(x,i) be zeros for all strings x 
        whose length exceeds i.
          To fulfill the third requirement, we perform the replacement
                     a(x, i) := max (a(x, i), a(x0, i) + a(x 1, г))
        iteratively starting from long strings  and then decreasing the length of x.  Since 
        a(x) is by definition a semimeasure, these replacements do not violate the inequality 
        a(x, i) ^ a(x).
          It is easy to check that our corrections do not change the limit values lim* a(x, i) 
        (for all x), so this limit is still equal to a(x).
          Lemma 1 is proven.
          To formulate the next lemma we need several auxiliary definitions.  A simple 
        semimeasure  (on  the  binary  tree)  is  a semimeasure  that  has  only  finitely  many 
        non-zero values, and all these values are dyadic rationale.
          A simple set is the union of a finite number of intervals in Q.  (Recall that an 
        interval in Q is a set of the form flz  that consists of all infinite sequences having 
        prefix 2.  Therefore, a set is simple if we need to know only a finite prefix of ш to 
        decide whether u> belongs to this set.)
          A simple family is a family of simple sets Ax  (for all binary strings x)  such 
        that only finitely many sets among Ax are non-empty and for each string x the sets 
        Axо and Axi are disjoint subsets of Ax.  For such a family the function x ha p(Ax), 
        where p stands for the uniform measure on Cl, is a simple semimeasure.  We say 
        that the family Ax implements this semimeasure.
          Lemma 2.  Each simple semimeasure can be implemented by a simple family.
          Proof.  We construct this family starting from the empty string x and then 
        gradually increase the length of the index string x.  At each step our goal is to find 
        two disjoint simple sets Axо and Axl inside the set Ax that is already constructed. 
        This is possible since the required measures do not exceed (in total) the measure 
        of Ax.  Lemma 2 is proven.
          Lemma  3.  Let b(x)  be  a simple  semimeasure,  and let Bx  be  a simple family 
        of intervals  that  implements  b.  Let  c  be  another  simple  semimeasure  such  that 
        c(x)  ^  b(x)  for all x.  Then we  can  construct  a simple family Cx  implementing c 
        such that Cx D Bx for all x.
          Proof.  Let us repeat the argument  used to prove Lemma 2.  Now we have 
        two disjoint simple subsets of a simple set, and we need to increase their measures 
        (keeping them disjoint).  It  is easy to see that this is indeed possible if the space 
        restrictions are not violated.  Lemma 3 is proved.
          The proofs of Lemmas 2 and 3 are effective in a natural sense:  both simple 
        semimeasures and simple families are finite objects, and there is an algorithm that 
        constructs the simple family given the simple semimeasure(s).
          Now we apply Lemma 3 iteratively to the simple semimeasures provided by 
        Lemma 1.  In this way we get a two-parametric family of simple sets U(x,i) such 
        that
            •  the description of U(x,i) (i.e., the list of intervals) is a computable func­
              tion of x and г;
            •  the  uniform measure of the set  U(x,i)  is equal to a(x,i)  (and therefore 
              tends to a(x) as i -A oo);
