                          INTRODUCTION.  WHAT IS THIS  BOOK  ABOUT?
          2
          that is,  all  y  such  that  D(y)  is defined  and  equals x.  The  length of the shortest 
          string y among them is called the Kolmogorov complexity of x with respect to D:
                               CD(x) = min{ l(y) I D(y) = .r}.
          Here l(y) denotes the length of the string y;  we use this notation throughout the 
          book.  The subscript D indicates that the definition depends on the choice of the 
          description mode D.  The minimum of the empty set is defined as +oo, thus Co(x) 
          is  infinite for  all  the strings x  outside the range of the function D  (they have no 
          descriptions).
             At first glance this definition seems to be meaningless, as for different D we ob­
          tain quite different notions, including ridiculous ones.  For instance, if D is nowhere 
          defined,  then Co  is infinite everywhere.  If D(y) — Л (the empty string) for all y, 
          then the complexity of the empty string is 0 (since D(Л) = Л and 1(A) = 0), and 
          the complexity of all the other strings is infinite.
             Here is a more reasonable example:  consider a decompressor D that just copies 
          its input to output, that is, D(x) — x for all x.  In this case every string is its own 
          description and Co(x) = l(x).
             Of course,  for  any  given  string  x  we  can  find  a description  mode  D  that  is 
          tailored to x and with respect to which x has small complexity.  Indeed, let D(A) — 
          x.  This implies Co(x) = 0.
             More generally, if we have some class of strings, we may look for a description 
          mode that favors all the strings in this class.  For example, for the class of strings 
          consisting of zeros only we may consider the following decompressor:
                             D(bin(n)) = 000... 000  (n zeros),
          where bin(n) stands for the binary notation of natural number n.  The length of 
          the  string  bin(n)  is  about  log2 n  (does  not  exceed  log2 n + 1).  With  respect  to 
          this  description  mode,  the complexity of the string consisting of n zeros is close 
          to log2 n.  This is much less that the length of the string (n).  On the other hand, 
          all strings containing symbol 1 have infinite complexity Co­
             lt  may seem that  the dependence of complexity on the choice of the decom­
          pressor makes impossible any general theory of complexity.  However, that is not 
          the case.
                               Optimal description modes
             A description mode is better when descriptions are shorter.  According to this, 
          we say that a description mode (decompressor) D\ is not worse than a description 
          mode Z)2 if
                                   CDl(x) ^ Co2(x) + c
          for some constant c and for all strings x.
             Let us comment on the role of the constant c in this definition.  We consider a 
          change in the complexity bounded by a constant as “negligible”.  One could say that 
          such a tolerance makes the complexity notion practically useless, as the constant c 
          can be very large.  However,  nobody managed to get any reasonable theory that 
          overcomes this difficulty and defines complexity with better precision.
             Example.  Consider two description modes (decompressors) Di  and Z)2.  Let 
          us show that there exists a description mode D which is not worse than both of
