                       5.7.  THE  RANDOM  NUMBER      161
       footnote compresses the most important facts about lower semicomputable random 
       reals into few lines).
          First, recall that one can prove the existence of a lower semicomputable random 
       real without references to Q (Problem 86).  So it is enough to prove that randomness 
        is upward-closed:  if a =<( ß and a is random, then ß is random.
          We may assume without loss of generality that a =4,\ ß (randomness does not 
       change if we multiply a real by a rational factor).  Let b{ —,► ß be a computable in­
       creasing sequence of rational numbers that converges to ß.  Assume that somebody 
       gives us (in parallel with hi) a sequence of rational intervals and guarantees that one 
       of them covers ß.  How do we transform it into a sequence of intervals that covers 
       a (i.e., one of the intervals covers a) and has the same (or smaller) total length?  If 
       an interval appears that is entirely on the left of the current approximation bi, it 
       can be ignored (since it cannot cover ß anyway).  If the interval is entirely on the 
       right of bi,  it  can be postponed until the current approximation bj  enters it  (this 
       may happen or not, in the latter case the interval does not cover ß).  If the interval 
       contains bi, we can convert it into the interval of the same length that starts at aj, 
       where aj is a rational approximation to a that has the same or better precision as 
       bi  (as an approximation to ß):  if /3 is in the original interval, a is in the converted 
       interval.
          So randomness is upward closed, and therefore complete lower semicomputable 
       reals are random.
          Remark.  The second part can be reformulated:  if a and ß are lower semicom­
       putable reals and at least one of them is random, then the sum a + ß is random 
       too.  The reverse is also true:  if both a and ß are non-random, then a + ß is not 
       random.  (Later we will see different proofs of this statement.)
          5.7.3.  Randomness and prediction game.  Before proving the reverse im­
       plication  (random lower semicomputable reals are Solovay complete), let us make 
       a digression and look more closely at the last  argument.  Consider the following 
       game.  An observer watches an increasing sequence of rationals (given one by one) 
       and from time to time makes predictions of the following type:  “the sequence will 
       never increase by more than Ö”  (compared to its current value).  Here Ö is some 
       non-negative rational.  The observer wins this game if
          (1) one of the predictions remains true forever;
          (2)  the sum of all numbers 5 used in the predictions is small (less that some 
       rational e > 0 which is given to the observer in advance).
          It  is  not  required  that  at  any moment  a valid prediction exists,  though one 
       could guarantee this by making predictions with Ô that are small and decrease fast 
       at each step.  Note also that every prediction can be safely postponed, so we may 
       assume that the next prediction is made only if the previous one becomes invalid. 
       Then at any moment there is only one valid prediction.
          One can give a criterion of randomness in terms of this game.
          Theorem  104.  Let ai  be  a computable  increasing sequence  of rational num­
       bers  that  converges  to  some  (lower semicomputable)  real a.  The  observer has  a 
       computable winning strategy in the game if and only if a is not random.
          P r o o f.  A  computable  winning strategy  gives  us  a  computable  sequence  of 
       prediction intervals of small total measure and guarantees that one of these (closed) 
       intervals contains a.  We can convert them to slightly bigger open intervals.
