                         4.1.  RANDOMIZED  ALGORITHMS  AND  SEMIMEASURES  ON  N            77
                          Figure 9.  Comparing ß = 0.bob\b2 • • •  and q — limg;
            the machine (in parallel to coin tossing) compute the rational numbers qo,qi,q2, ■ ■ ■■ 
            The machine halts when it finds out that ß < q.  That is, the machine halts if for 
            some i the rational number ßi  =  O.bo&i • • • ЬДП • • •  (the  currently  known upper 
            bound for ß) is less than g*  (the currently known lower bound for q).  See Figure 9 
            for a symbolic representation of this argument.
                The constructed machine halts if and only if ß < q.  Indeed, assume that ß is 
            less than q.  The numbers g* tend to q and the upper bounds ßi for ß tend to /3, as 
            i —> oo.  Therefore for some i the number qi is greater than ßi.  On the other hand, 
            if the machine halts, then ß < q by construction.
                Thus the halting probability of the machine is equal to the probability of the 
            event ß < q.  The latter probability equals the length of the segment  [0,g), that is, 
            to q.  (Recall that ß is uniformly distributed in the segment  [0,1].)        □
                Let us return to probability distributions that can by generated by probabilistic 
            machines.  First,  a definition.  A sequence Po,Pi,P2, • • •  is  lower semicomputable if 
            there  is  a function p(i,n),  where  i,n  are integers  and p(i,n)  is  either  a rational 
            number or —oo, with the following properties:  the function p(i, n) is non-decreasing 
            in the second argument:
                                     p(i,0) <p(i, 1) <p(i, 2) < • ••
            and
                                            Pi =  lim  p(i, n)
                                                 n—»oo
            for all i.
                One could say that the sequence pi  is  lower semicomputable if the numbers 
            Pq,Pi,P2, ■ ■ ■ are “uniformly lower semicomputable”.  The next theorem provides an 
            alternative way to define lower semicomputable sequences.
                Theorem 45.  A sequence po,pi,P2, ■ ■ ■  is lower semicomputable if and only if 
            the set of pairs  (r,i),  where i  is  a natural number and r  is  a rational number less 
            than pi,  is  enumerable.
                Proof.  Recall that a set is enumerable if there is an algorithm that generates 
            all  its  elements in some order with arbitrary delays between consecutive elements 
            (the algorithm may not halt even if the set is finite).
                Assume that a sequence Po,Pi,P2, ■ ■ ■ is lower semicomputable.  Let p(i,n) be 
            the function from the definition of the lower semicomputability.  Arrange all the 
            pairs (r, i) in a sequence so that every pair appears in the sequence infinitely many
