                                       10.4.  UNIFORM  SETS  AND  ORBITS                       323
             where  h(q\,..., qm)  =         log<ft)  is  the  Shannon  entropy  of a  random  vari­
             able  that  has  m  values  with  probabilities  qi,. ■ ■ ,qm,  i.e.,  the  Shannon  entropy 
             of {rji,. ■ ■ ,r]n).  So  the  log-size  of U  is  (approximately)  N  times  bigger than the 
             entropy of (?7i,..., r]n), and the same can be said about every projection of the set 
             (and the corresponding projection of the random variable).
                 If a linear inequality is true for log-sizes of the projections of all uniform sets, 
             it will be true for the set U.  Increasing N (we can multiply N by an integer factor) 
             and taking the limit (as N —> oo), we conclude that the same inequality is true for 
             all random variables with rational probabilities.  By continuity it is true for every 
             probability distribution, and we get the following result  [37]:
                 Theorem 207 (Chan and Yeung).  Every linear inequality that is true for log- 
             sizes of the projections of uniform sets is also true for entropies of arbitrary random 
             variables.
                                      10.4.  Uniform sets and orbits
                 Let us think again about the construction of the previous section.  How do we 
             get a uniform set?  Usually uniformity is a byproduct of some algebraic structure on 
             the objects considered.  Such a structure indeed can be found in our construction.
                 Namely, we have a permutation group S'/v and its action on the columns of the 
             matrix.  The uniform set is an orbit of some point (and contains all the matrices with 
             the same frequencies).  This is a special case of the following situation.  Consider 
            some finite group G and some actions of G on finite sets X\...., Xn.  Together they 
            define an action of G on Xi x • • • x Xn.  Consider and arbitrary point (aq,..., xn) 
            Xi X ••• X Xn and its orbit U (for this action).
                 Theorem 208.  The set U is a uniform subset of Xi  x • ■ • x Xn.
                 Proof.  Let us consider all elements of G as équiprobable.  Consider the action 
            of a random element of G on the point x =  {aq,... , æm);  the image is a random 
            variable whose range is the orbit of G.  All the values of these random variables are 
            équiprobable.  Indeed, the elements of G that map a given point ж to a given point 
            у form a coset of a stabilizer subgroup of the point x  (which contains the group 
            elements that map x to itself), and all the cosets have the same size.
                 The same is true for every subset of the set of indices, so a random element of 
            U has the same chances of being projected onto all points (of the projection of U)\ 
            thus the set U is uniform.                                                          □
                 How can we rewrite the inequalities for the sizes of projections in terms of the 
            size of the group and its subgroups?  The orbit U has size  |G|/|Sj where S is the 
            stabilizer of the point x.  This stabilizer  (for our action)  is the intersection of the 
            stabilizers of aq,... ,xn.  The same can be said for every set I of indices:  the size 
            of the projection of U on indices {UU2,...} is the ratio |G|/|5ij П Si2 П • • • | where 
            Sj  is the stabilizer of Xj.  Note that we can go in the other direction:  an arbitrary 
            subgroup H of G is the stabilizer of some point in the action of G on the cosets of 
            H.  In this way every inequality for the projections of uniform sets translates to an 
            inequality about the sizes of subgroups and their intersections.
