                                                                  5.7.   THE RANDOM  NUMBER Г2                                                            165
                                                    Cl o           Cl 1         a2
                                  Figure  13.  Increases of ai are used in the prediction game for ß.
                           (2)  this process continues indefinitely.
                           In the second case a =<h ß since the difference ß — a is represented as a sum of 
                    a computable series  (“holes”  between neighbor intervals;  note that the endpoints 
                    of the shifted intervals also converge to ß).
                           After this remark it  is easy to show that every incomplete ß is not random. 
                    Indeed,  assume that  ß  is  not  Solovay  complete;  we  need  to  prove  that  ß  is  not 
                    random.  Since ß is not complete, there exists some a such that a ^ ß.  In particular, 
                    a        ß.  Therefore, for these a and ß the second alternative is impossible, and the 
                    observer wins.  In other words, we get a computable sequence of (closed) intervals 
                    of total size at  most  ^  hi  that covers ß.  Repeating the same argument for a /2, 
                    a/4,...  (we know that a/c                         ß for every c, since a ^ ß), we effectively get a cover 
                    of ß with arbitrarily small measure (since the sum of all hi is bounded by a integer 
                    constant even being non-computable); therefore ß is not random.
                           This finishes the proof of the result we mentioned:
                           Theorem 110.  A lower semicomputable real is Solovay complete if and only if 
                    it is ML-random.
                           5.7.5.             Slow convergence:  Solovay functions.  We have seen several results 
                    of the following type:  the limit of an increasing computable sequence of rationale 
                    is random if and only if the convergence is slow.  In this section we provide some 
                    other results of this type [12, 67].
                           Consider a computable converging series ^                                  of non-negative rational numbers. 
                    Note that г*  is bounded by 0(m(i)) where m(i)  is the  (discrete)  a priori proba­
                    bility  of integer i,  and  therefore prefix complexity K(i)  —  — logm(i)  is bounded 
                    by  —logTj + 0(1).  We say that the series J2ri  converges  slowly  in  the Solovay 
                    sense  (has the Solovay property) if this bound is 0(l)-tight infinitely often, i.e., if 
                    rj ^ em(i) for some e > 0 and for infinitely many i.  In other words, the series does 
                    not converge slowly if Гг/Шг —> 0.
                           Historically the name Solovay function was used for a computable bound S(i) 
                    for prefix complexity K(i) that is tight infinitely often, i.e., K(i) ^ S(i) + 0(1) for 
                    every i and K(i) ^ S(i) — c for some c and for infinitely many values of i.  Thus, a 
                    computable series ^2 ri of non-negative rational numbers has the Solovay property 
                    if and only if i i-»  — log2 r*  is a Solovay function.  (Usually integer-valued Solovay 
                    functions are considered, so some rounding is needed.)  We provide several results 
                    that relate randomness to slow convergence, mainly following [12, 67].
                           Theorem 111.  Let a — Yliri  be a computable converging series of non-nega­
                    tive rational numbers.  The number a is random if and only if this series converges 
                    slowly in the Solovay sense.
                          In other words, the sum is non-random if and only if the ratio ri/m(i) tends 
                    to 0.
