                           1.2.  ALGORITHMIC  PROPERTIES        25
            Proof.  Let an be the most time-consuming description of length at most n, 
         that  is,  the string x of length at most n in the domain of D that maximizes the 
         running time of D on x.  Knowing n and an, one can generate the list of all strings 
         of length at most n in the domain of D, and hence the number BB(n).  Both n and 
         an  can be encoded in one string of length n + 1,  the string 0 • • • 01an  (there are 
         n — l(ctn) zeros in the beginning).  Therefore, the Kolmogorov complexity of BB (n) 
         is at most n + 0(1), and BB(n) < B(n + c) for some c and all n.
           Let us prove the second inequality of the theorem showing that every t > BB(n) 
         has complexity at least n — 0(1).  Assume that t has a description и of length k\ 
         we need to show that к > n — 0(1).  Knowing и and n, one can effectively obtain 
         a  string  of complexity  greater  than  n.  Indeed,  we  reconstruct  t  (from  и)  and 
         wait  t  steps  for  every  description  of size  at  most  n.  This  gives  us  all  strings  of 
         complexity at most n, and we can take some other string.  By definition of B(n) 
         we conclude that the pair (u,n)  has complexity at least n — 0(1).  On the other 
         hand,  this pair can be described using к + 0(log(n — к))  bits if we join the self­
         delimited description of n — k and u.  Therefore, к + 0(log(n — к)) ^ n — 0(1), and 
         (n — k) — 0(log(n — к))  <  0(1), hence n — к ^ 0(1).  (We assumed that n > k; 
         otherwise, there is nothing to prove.)                 □
           This theorem shows that, within an additive constant in the argument,  B(n) 
         is the maximal running time of the optimal decompressor on descriptions of length 
         at most n.  A similar function appeared in the literature under the name of “busy 
         beaver function”.  It was introduced by T. Rado [150] and is defined usually as the 
         maximal number of ones on the tape of Turing machine with n states and binary 
         tape alphabet (1 and blank) after it terminates (starting with blank tape).
           More generally, given n and any object from the following list, we can find any 
         other object from the list for a little bit smaller value of n:
            (a)  the  list  of  all  strings  of Kolmogorov  complexity  at  most  n  with  their 
               Kolmogorov complexities;
            (b)  the number of such strings;
            (c)  B(n);
            (d)  BB(n)\
            (e)  the  list  of all  strings  of length  at  most  n  in the  domain  of the  optimal 
               decompressor (the halting problem for the optimal decompressor restricted 
               to inputs of length at most n);
            (f)  the number of such strings;
            (g)  the most time-consuming input of length at most n for the optimal de­
               compressor;
            (h)  the graph Tn of the function C(x) on strings x of length n;
             (i)  the  lexicographically  first  string  7n  of length  n  with  Kolmogorov  com­
               plexity at least n (it exists since the number of strings of complexity less 
               than n is less than 2n).
           More specifically, the following statement holds.
           Theorem 15.  The complexity of every object in (a)-(i)  is equal to n + 0(1). 
         These objects are  equivalent to  each  other in the following sense:  Let Xn  and Yn 
         be objects described in two items among (a)-(i).  Then there is a constant c and an 
         algorithm that given n and Xn finds Yn- C•
