                      9.8.  COMPUTABLE MARTINGALES    279
       remains the same,  so the proof of the part  (a)  still works.  And the part  (b)  be­
       comes only weaker, so we can replace martingales by supermatringales everywhere 
       in Theorem 181.
          It is clear that a 7r-supermartingale is just the ratio of some semimeasure and 
       7Г.  Since 7Г is computable,  lower semicomputable martingales correspond to lower 
       semicomputable semimeasures.  Therefore, we immediately see that there exists the 
       largest (up to O(l)-factor) supermartingale, and it is equal to
                          m(x) — a(x)l тг(х).
          This gives us a new proof of the Levin-Schnorr theorem in the version for an 
       a priori probability (Theorem 91, p. 148):  A sequence uo is ML-random with respect 
       to  a computable measure 7Г if and only if the ratio a(x)/ir(x)  is bounded for the 
       prefixes of co.
                      9.8.  Computable martingales
          The notion of a lower semicomputable martingale is rather unnatural from the 
       gambler’s point of view:  The proportion in which the capital is split between two 
       bets is then a ratio of two lower semicomputable reals, which is rather strange.
          Maybe we should consider only computable martingales?  Let us assume that 
       a computable measure 7Г on Cl is fixed and all the values 7г(а;) = тг(£1х) are strictly 
       positive  (this  is  important  since  these  values  are  in  the  denominators).  Then  a 
       computable martingale corresponds to a computable (in the natural sense) strategy 
       in the game.
          We say that a sequence со is  computably random with respect to 7Г if no com­
       putable 7r-martingale wins on it, i.e., every computable martingale is bounded on 
       its prefixes.  (The name  “computably random”  sounds a bit strange;  it would be 
       better to say something like “random with respect to computable martingales”, but 
       here we stick to the commonly used terminology even if it is not perfect.)
          266   (a) Show that we get an equivalent definition if we consider only martin­
       gales that are separated from zero; for example, we can consider only martingales 
       with values at least 1/2.
          (b)  Assume that 7г(^а;)  are positive rational numbers that can be computed 
       given X  (exactly).  Show that we get an equivalent definition if we consider only 
       martingales with rational values and require them to be exactly computable.
          {Hint:  (a) Take the average of a given martingale and the constant 1.  (b) If all 
       the values are separated from zero, we can approximate the proportions by rational 
       numbers, and it is easy to guarantee that the approximation error does not affect 
       the winning property.)
          How does the notion of a computably random sequence relate to other defini­
       tions of randomness?  The following theorem gives some answer to this question. 
       The first two statements are valid for every computable measure 7Г, while the two 
       following ones are for the uniform measure.  (They can be also stated for the case of 
       Bernoulli measure Bp with computable probability p\ the proof remains essentially 
       the same.)
          Theorem 182.  (a)  Every ML-random sequence is computably random.
          (b)  There exists a computably random sequence whose prefixes have logarithmic 
       complexity.  (So the previous statement cannot be reversed.)
          (c)  Evey computably random sequence is Mises-Church random.
