                           ANOTHER DIGRESSION:  QUANTUM MECHANICS              463
           the machine uses a fixed amount of cooling substance of very low temperature, the 
           amount of work produced can be very large.)  But at least these informal arguments 
           make plausible that dynamic laws make impossible the perpetual motion machine 
           of the second kind (if the latter is defined properly).
                          Another digression:  Quantum mechanics
              Another physics  topic  often  discussed  is  quantum  mechanics  as  a source  of 
           randomness.  There were many philosophical debates around quantum mechanics. 
           However, it seems that the relation between quantum mechanical models and obser­
           vations resembles the situation with probability theory and statistical mechanics. 
           The difference is that in quantum mechanics the model assigns amplitudes (instead 
           of probabilities)  to  different  outcomes  (or events).  The  amplitudes  are  complex 
           numbers and the quantum Cournot principle says that if the  (absolute value)  of 
           the amplitude of event A is smaller than for event B, then the possibility of event В 
           must be taken into consideration to a greater extent than the possibility of event A 
           (assuming the consequences are equally grave).  Again this  implies  that  we  can 
           (practically) ignore events with very small amplitudes.
              The interpretation of the square of amplitude as probability can be then derived 
           is the same way as in the case of the frequency approach.  If a system is made of N 
           independent identical systems with two outcomes 0 and 1 and the outcome 1 has 
           amplitude z in each system, then for the entire system the amplitude of the event 
           “the number of l’s among the outcomes deviates significantly from N\z\2”  is very 
          small (it is just the classical law of large numbers in disguise).
              One can then try to analyze measurement devices from the quantum mechan­
          ical  viewpoint  and  prove  (using  the  same  quantum  Cournot  principle)  that  the 
          frequency of some outcome of measurement is close to the square of the length of 
          the projection of the initial state to a corresponding subspace outside some event 
          of small amplitude, etc.
