                                        3.3.  EFFECTIVELY  NULL  SETS                         59
                                        3.3.  Effectively null sets
                 Let a measure on fl be fixed, and let p(x) be the measure of the interval flx. 
                 We say that a set A c fl is an effectively null set  (with respect to the given 
             measure) if for every e > 0 one can effectively find a family of intervals that cover 
             A and whose total measure does not exceed e.
                 Some details  should  be  specified  in  this  definition.  First,  we  consider  only 
            rational values of e (otherwise it is not clear how e could be given to an algorithm). 
             Second, we need to specify how the sequence of intervals (that cover A) is generated. 
            We do this as follows:
                 Definition.  A set A c fl is called an  effectively null set  (with respect to a 
            given measure) if there exists a computable function x(-, •) whose first argument is 
            a positive rational number, its second argument is a natural number and values are 
            binary strings, such that
                  (1)  А С Дг(е,0) U Дг(е,1) и Пх(е,2) ' ' ' ,
                  (2)  p(x(e, 0)) + p(x(e, 1)) + p(x(e, 2)) + ■ ■ ■ ^ e
            for any rational e > 0.  Note that we do not require the function x to be total;  if 
            x(e,i) is undefined, the corresponding term (in both conditions) is omitted.
                 68 Show that we get an equivalent version of the definition if we consider an 
            algorithm that gets e > 0 as an input and enumerates a set of binary strings (by 
            printing its elements with arbitrary delays between elements) such that intervals 
            flx  for generated x cover A and have  total measure  (the measure of the union of 
            the intervals)  at most e.  (Note that the total measure can be much smaller than 
            the sum of measures, if the intervals are not disjoint.)
                 69  Show that  we get  an equivalent  definition  if we  consider  only  rational 
            numbers of the form 2~k  (for integer к)  instead of all rational e.  Show that the 
            definition does not change if we replace the sign ^ by < in the second inequality.
                 (Hint:  Subtract from each interval its part covered by previous intervals, pos­
            sibly splitting it into several intervals.)
                 70  Show that we get an equivalent definition if we require that for each e > 0
            the domain of the function i     x(e,i) is an initial segment of N (or N itself).
                I 7 1 1 Show that we get an equivalent definition if we require that the family of 
            intervals is decidable (instead of being enumerable).
                 (Hint:  An interval can be split into small parts, so we may assume that intervals 
            in  the  sequence  have  non-increasing  length,  and  the family of intervals  becomes 
            decidable.)
                Let us give some examples of effectively null subsets of fl (with respect to the 
            uniform measure).
                A singleton, whose only element is a sequence of zeros, is an effectively null set. 
            Indeed,  for every e  >  0,  we find an integer к such that  2'~  k  <  £,  and consider a 
            covering that consists of one interval fioo---o (corresponding to the string of к zeros).
                Formally speaking, x(e, 0)  = 0fc, where 0k stands for the sequence formed by 
            к  zeros,  and  к  is  the smallest  integer such that  2' ~k  <  £.  The values  x(e,i)  are 
            undefined for i > 0.
                In  this  example the sequence 0000 • • •  can  be replaced  by  an  arbitrary  com­
            putable  sequence of zeros  and ones;  we need only consider its prefix of length  к 
            instead of 0k.
