                          6.1.  DECISION  COMPLEXITY       195
                                   objects
                                 Nl    £
                             Nl   C   KR
                              £   К   KM
                        Figure  16.  Four complexities
           (i)  If f  :  Nj_  —> £  is a  computable continuous mapping,  then
        KR(f(x)) ^ C(x) + 0(1) (the constant in 0(1)  may depend on f  but not on x).
           (j)  A prefix-free set of strings  (none is a prefix of another one)  that have deci­
        sion complexity less than n,  has cardinality less than 2n.
           (k) The function KR  is upper semicomputable  (enumerable from above).
           (l)  The function KR  is the smallest  (up to  a constant) function satisfying the 
        last two conditions:  if some function к is upper semicomputable and for every n the 
        cardinality of every prefix-free set of strings x  such that k(x)  < n for all elements 
        of this set is 0(2n),  then KR (x) ^ k(x) + 0(1).
           (m)  KR (x) ^ К A (x) + 0(1) for all strings x.
           PROOF,  (a)  This is an immediate corollary of the definition  (description of a 
        string is at the same time description of any its prefix).
           (b)  Assume  that  the  sequence uj  is  computable.  Consider  the  machine that 
        ignores  its  input  and prints cj  bit  by bit,  as  a decompressor  (description mode). 
        All prefixes of uj  have zero complexity with respect to this decompressor (since the 
        empty string is their description),  and therefore they have 0 (l)-complexity (with 
        respect to the optimal decompressor), On the other hand, if the complexities of all 
        prefixes of cj  are bounded,  some string has to be a description of infinitely many 
        prefixes, therefore cj  is computable.
           (c)  Any partial computable function whose arguments and values are binary 
        strings can be considered as a KR-decompressor  (do not output anything before 
        the computation is finished, then print the result bit by bit).
           (d)  Any continuous computable mapping £ —>• £ can be considered as a KR- 
        decompressor (after restriction to finite strings; we may say that we type the input 
        string  on  the  keyboard  of a robust  machine  immediately  after  the  computation 
        starts, and we do not touch the keyboard anymore).
           (e)  Let  R  :  N  —>•  £  be  an  optimal  decompressor  used  in  the  definition  of 
        decision complexity.  Consider a computable mapping R :  £ —>  £ defined as fol­
        lows:  R(xu) = R(x), where x is a self-delimiting encoding of x (say, the x itself is 
        prepended by the binary encoding of l(x) with duplicated bits and the separator 
        01) and и is an arbitrary string (needed to ensure the monotonicity).
           (f)  Let  again R : N —> £ be an optimal KR-decompressor.  Define the condi­
        tional decompressor 5 by letting S(y, n) be the first n bits of the sequence R(y)  (if 
        n exceeds the length of R(y), then S(y, n) is undefined).
           (g)  Consider  a  new  KR -decompressor  that  is  a composition  of the  optimal 
        KR -decompressor and the mapping /, and compare this new decompressor with 
        the optimal one.
