             268           9.  FREQUENCY  AND  GAME APPROACHES TO  RANDOMNESS
             can we give a more explicit construction of such a sequence? Indeed this is possible, 
             and we now explain such a construction following A. Wald  [217],  J.  Ville  [206], 
             and D. Loveland [106].
                 Let  us  first  consider  the  case  when  there  is  only  one  selection  rule  Sr  that 
             corresponds to some set R.  Then it is easy to construct  a sequence ш such that 
             Sr(oo) = 01010101 • • •  (zeros and ones alternate), so Sr(oo) is balanced.  Indeed, we 
             construct ш from left to right.  When the rule Sr informs us that it intends to select 
             the next term, we look at the number of this term in the subsequence (whether it 
             is even or odd) and choose the next term to be 0 or 1 depending on this number. 
             (The terms of ш that are not selected by Sr can be chosen arbitrarily.)
                 Now assume that we have m sets Ri,..., Rm  that define selection rules.  We 
             want to construct a sequence и such that Sr^cj) is finite or balanced for each Ri. 
             Again we construct the sequence from left to right.  Before we choose the value of 
             the next term oon, let us apply all the rules to the previous terms and see which of 
             the rules SRi  will select un.  We get a ?n-bit vector, so we can classify the terms 
             of и into 2m classes depending on this vector, even before the value of the term is 
             chosen.  The sequence со, therefore, is a mixture of 2m interleaving sequences (some 
             of them may be finite).
                 We have not said yet  how we construct to.  We use the following rule.  All 
             the  2m  subsequences  (corresponding to  2m  values of the m-bit  vector)  should be 
             01010101 • • •.  This  can  be  achieved  in  a  unique  way:  Before  oon  is  chosen,  we 
             know ojq ■ • ■ ojn—i,  and  we  know  which  rules will select  con,  so  we  know  in which 
             subsequences is con and we can choose its value.
                 Note that Sr^ co) is a mixture of 2m~1 subsequences (that correspond to 2m~1 
             bit vectors that have 1 at position г).  Therefore Sr^ co) is balanced; moreover, we 
             can guarantee that in each prefix of Sr^oo) the number of ones does not exceed the 
             number of zeros, and the difference is bounded by 2m~1  (one for each subsequence).
                 Now we switch to the general case of countably many rules R{.  The main idea 
             is that we add these rules one by one, and at each moment deal with finitely many 
             rules.  If we do it  slowly,  the transition effects are negligible,  and every selection 
             rule selects a balanced subsequence.
                 If this  is  not  convincing,  here  are the  details.  Assume that we have already 
             constructed some prefix ooo ■ ■ -ojn-1  of the sequence to.  Then it is already known 
             which rules Sr1  will select  the next  term oon  (while the value of con  is  yet  to be 
             determined).  This  information  is  now  not  an  m-bit  vector,  but  an  infinite  bit 
             sequence iqiq---  (where щ  —  1  if Srï  selects the next term).  We consider the 
             sequence U\U2 ‘ ■ ■  as a path in an infinite binary tree.
                 Fix  some increasing sequence ko  <  к±  <  k,2  <      of positive  integers.  We 
             assume that it grows fast enough; for example, we may let кг = 22г.  At each step 
             of the construction (for each term cjn) one of the tree vertices will be declared as 
             active.  Namely,  following  the path  щщ - ■ ■,  we  select  the  first  vertex  that  was 
             active fewer than ki times, where г is the height of this vertex,  and we declare it 
             as  active.  In  other  words,  an  active vertex  (at  the step when con  is chosen)  is  a 
             shortest string x such that
                    •  the ith bit of x is 1 if and only if 5д;  selects wn;
                    •  at previous steps of the construction (when ooo ■ • -u;n_i was constructed), 
                      the vertex x was active fewer than кцх) times.
