                                                                                                                                        3.  MARTIN-LÖF RANDOMNESS
                                         66
                                                        Theorem 33.  Let oj = ojqoj\ • • •  be an ML-random sequence with respect to the 
                                          uniform measure.  Then
                                                                                                                                   t               aJo + uji + • ■ • -f- a>n-i                                                            1
                                                                                                                                   lilTL  --------------------------- = -.
                                                                                                                                 n-¥ OO                                                                                                 n 2
                                                       A similar statement is true for arbitrary Bernoulli measure.  Let p and q be 
                                         computable positive reals such that p + q  =  1.  Consider the Bernoulli measure 
                                         with parameters q and p  (the sequence of independent  coin tossing with success 
                                         probability p).  It is easy to check that this is a computable measure (since p and q 
                                         are computable).
                                                       Theorem  34.  Any ML-random sequence  with  respect  to  Bernoulli  measure 
                                         with computable parameters q,p has limit frequency p.
                                                       Proof.  Indeed, the upper bound for the probability of large deviations  (ob­
                                         tained by comparing the given Bernoulli measure with the other one with shifted 
                                        p,  see Problem 67, p.  58), gives an explicit bound and an explicit set of intervals, 
                                         so we get an effectively null set.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      □
                                                       There are several other properties of ML-randomness with respect to the uni­
                                         form measure:
                                                       Theorem  35.  Let oj  be  an ML-random sequence with respect to  the uniform 
                                         measure.  Then any other sequence which is obtained from oj  by a finite number of 
                                         insertions/deletions/changes is also ML-random.
                                                       Proof.  It is enough to show that adding a zero/one in the beginning of an 
                                         ML-random sequence or deleting the first term of an ML-random sequence gives an 
                                         ML-random sequence.  Indeed, assume that sequence oj is not ML-random, i.e., it 
                                         forms an effectively null singleton:  for each e one can effectively construct a covering 
                                         by intervals with total measure less than e.  Let us add zero at the beginning of 
                                         all these intervals (i.e., the corresponding strings).  We get a covering for 0oj whose 
                                         measure is twice as small.  This argument shows that if oj is not ML-random, then 
                                         0oj  is not ML-random either.  (A similar argument works for 1 oj.)
                                                       On the other hand, if we delete the first bit of all strings that form a covering 
                                        for oj, we get a family of intervals of measure twice as large that covers oj' (obtained 
                                        from oj by deleting the first bit).  Therefore, oj' is not ML-random either.                                                                                                                                                                                                             □
                                                          81                             Prove that by replacing all zeros by ones and vice versa in an ML-random 
                                        sequence (with respect to the uniform measure) we get an ML-random sequence.
                                                       The following problem shows that a computable subsequence of an ML-random 
                                        sequence is ML-random.
                                                         82 Let no, ni, П2,... be a computable sequence of different integers (щ /  nj 
                                        if i /  j).  Let oj = OJ0OJ1OJ2 • • •  be an ML-random sequence.  Then its subsequence
                                                                                                                                                   oj\n — OJnoOJniOJn2 • • •
                                        is ML-random.
                                                       (Hint:  Any interval Q.x in a cover for oj\n produces a finite family of intervals 
                                        whose union is the set of sequences whose (no, n\,..., ni_i)-subsequence coincides 
                                        with X  (here i is the length of the string x).  The total measure of these intervals 
                                        equals 2”*, the measure of Qx.)
