            384           12.  MULTISOURCE  ALGORITHMIC  INFORMATION  THEORY
                    Figure 44.  A cut for Bennett-Gâcs-Li-Vitânyi-Zurek theorem
            be the output strings for all vertices in 7.  Then the following condition is necessary 
            for the request to be fulfillable:
                              C(WU. ..,wm\vl,...,vl)^ul + --- + uk.
            (As always, all the inequalities are understood with logarithmic precision).  Indeed, 
            if we know all V\,..., Vi and also all the messages along the edges going into 7 from 
            outside,  we  can  reconstruct  (with  logarithmic  advice)  all  the  outgoing  messages 
            for  all vertices in 7,  including W\,..., Wm.  This can be done by considering the 
            vertices of 7  in  a topologically sorted  ordering  (the starting point  of every edge 
            should be considered before its endpoint; recall that the graph is acyclic according 
            to our assumption).
                In  fact  this  is just  the  standard  argument  about  flows  and  cuts,  adapted to 
            information flow.  Let us explain how this general scheme gives the necessary con­
            ditions for the requests in one of our previous examples.  Consider the request from 
            Section 12.6, and let 7 be the set of three vertices inside the dotted line (Figure 44).
                The incoming information consists of A and some string of length к (along the 
            edge with capacity k).  Two other edges of the graph go in the opposite direction 
            (recall  that  all  edges  are  assumed  to  be  in  the  top-down  direction).  So  we  get 
            exactly the condition C(B | A)  ^ к that we used.
                327  Show  that  for  all  our  examples  the  conditions  we  considered  can  be
            obtained as cut-flow conditions for suitable chosen cuts.
                                  12.9.  Networks with one source
                In  the  previous  section  we  explained  a  general  method  to  obtain  necessary 
            conditions for the information requests to be fulfillable.  A natural question arises: 
            Are they (taken for all possible cuts) sufficient?  In all previous examples this was 
            indeed the case.  In general, as we will see later in this chapter, this is not true.  In 
            this section we show that it is true for the special case where there exists one input 
            node with input string A and several output nodes with (the same) output strings 
            A.  In other words,  if we want to transmit some information without change and 
            have only one source node, the cut-flow conditions are not only necessary but also 
            sufficient.
                For Shannon information theory this problem was studied in  [1,  104].  Our 
            argument follows the scheme used there (with some changes needed to adapt it to 
            the complexity framework).
