                               5.3.  A  PRIORI  COMPLEXITY  AND  ITS  PROPERTIES                125
             X is a string of n zeros,  its a priori complexity is bounded while plain and prefix 
             complexities are not.)
                  128 Prove that for every string x at least one of the numbers  К A (xO)  and 
             KA(x 1)  is  at  least  KA(x) + 1.  (In this  problem  it  is  important  that  KA(x)  is 
             defined as — loga(x) without integer rounding.)  Prove that for every string x and 
             every integer n there exists a string у of length n such that К A (xy) ^ К A (x) + n. 
             Prove that there exists an infinite binary sequence u> such that  К A (x)  ^ l(x) for 
             every prefix of u>.
                 Compare the last problem with Theorem 71  (p.  Ill) and Problem 46 (p. 42); 
             note that with the a priori complexity we can get rid of condition n and even the 
             constant 0 (1) appearing there.
                  129  Prove that the differences C(x) — К A (x) and К A (x) — C(x) could be of 
             order logn for some strings of length n (and for arbitrarily large n).
                 (Hint:  C(x) can be much greater than KA (x) if x consists of zeros only.  On 
             the other hand, C{x) is smaller than К A (x) if x is a prefix of a sequence from the 
             preceding problem.  In this case  KA(x) — l(x) + 0(1),  but  C(x)  can be smaller 
             than l(x) by log/(x); see Problem 54.)
                  130  Prove that
                                      KA (xy) < K(x) + KA (y) + 0(1),
             where xy is the concatenation of strings x and y.  It is important that x is on the 
             left of y:  show that for KA (yx) the statement is false.
                 (Hint:  Let U be a probabilistic algorithm in the sense of Chapter 4 that gener­
             ates the discrete a priori probability on strings.  Let V be the probabilistic algorithm 
             that generates the continuous a priori probability.  Then combine U and V as fol­
             lows:  first, run U until it outputs something and terminates.  Then run V using the 
             fresh random bits and add its output bits to the string generated by U.  To show 
             that К A (xy) cannot be replaced by К A (yx), let у = On and x = 1.)
                 (Cf.  Theorem 71 on p.  Ill and Problem 46 on p. 42; note that now we do not 
             have n as a condition, and we even do not have the term 0 (1) in the inequality.)
                 Another property of the a priori complexity is an immediate consequence of its 
             definition.  Let ß be a computable measure on Q.  Then for some c and every x we 
             have
                                          KA (x) ^ — log ß(Clx) + c-
             Indeed, the a priori probability on the binary tree is greater than ß (or any other 
             computable measure,  or even lower semicomputable semimeasure)  up to  a 0 (1) 
             factor, and it remains to take logarithms.
                 This (very simple) property is important since it is the basis for a criterion of 
             Martin-Löf randomness in terms of the a priori complexity:  a sequence u> is ML- 
             random with respect to a computable measure ß if and only if this inequality turns 
             into  an  equality  for prefixes of cj,  i.e.,  if the difference  — \ogß(Qx) — KA(x)  has 
             a constant upper bound for all x that are prefixes of ui  (it always has a constant 
             lower bound as we just mentioned).
                 This criterion follows from Schnorr-Levin theorem that provides randomness 
             criterion in terms of monotone complexity and we postpone its proof to Section 5.6
