                                   358                                                                               11.  COMMON  INFORMATION
                                               There is a simple property of a bipartite graph that guarantees that it is hard to 
                                   cover this graph by combinatorial rectangles.  The graph should not contain cycles 
                                   of length 4  (there are no vertices a, b in one part and c, d in other part such that 
                                   all  four edges ac,ad,bc,bd are in the graph).  The following combinatorial lemma 
                                   shows that such a graph is difficult to cover:
                                               Lemma.  Consider a bipartite graph with I vertices in the left part and L vertices 
                                   in the  right part;  assume  that I  ^  L.  If this graph  does not have  cycles  of length 
                                   4,  then the density of edges in it  ( the number of edges divided by IL)  is bounded by 
                                   0  (  m    a   x  (  l  /  >   / Z    ,   1 / / ) ) .
                                              In other words, if we place stars in a rectangular table in such a way that no 
                                   four stars form a rectangle with horizontal and vertical sides, then the density of 
                                  stars is bounded either by 0 (l/smaller side) or by 0 (1/д/larger side).
                                              PROOF.  For each of I left vertices, consider the set of its right neighbors.  The 
                                  condition about cycles says that every two sets of this type (for two different left 
                                  vertices) have at most one common element.  The inclusion-exclusion formula then 
                                  allows us to give a lower bound for the size of the union of all these neighbor sets: 
                                  the sum of sizes of all sets (i.e., the total number of edges in the graph) minus the 
                                  number of all possible pairs, at most I2.  On the other hand, this union contains at 
                                  most L elements (the size of the right part).
                                              So we conclude that the total number of edges is bounded by L + I2, and the 
                                  density is bounded by l/l + l/L.  This gives the required bound if the first term 
                                  dominates the second one,  i.e.,  for  I  ^  \fh.  But  for I  ^  \/Z,  we get  the bound 
                                  0(l/L) which is not enough (we want 0 (l/>/Z)); this is OK if I = 0(y/L),  but I 
                                  can be bigger.
                                              To get the required bound, let us consider a part of the graph by choosing \fL 
                                  vertices  in the  left  part  (among I)  with maximal  number of neighbors.  Deleting 
                                  all other left vertices, we only increase the density, and for the reduced graph the 
                                  density is bounded by l/y/Z.  The lemma is proven.
                                              Now we need to find a graph without 4-cycles.  (Then the lemma guarantees 
                                  that  it  is  difficult  to  cover by  rectangles,  and  a random edge in this  graph gives 
                                  us  a pair  without  common information;  see  below.)  Here  is  a simple  geometric 
                                  construction.
                                              Consider some finite field F and a plane (a two-dimensional vector space) over F. 
                                  The left vertices are points in this plane; the right vertices are lines.  Edges connect 
                                  incident points and lines.  We do not have 4-cycles thanks to Euclid’s axiom:  for 
                                  two given points there is at most one line that goes through them.
                                              How many vertices and edges do we get? If the field contains about 2n elements, 
                                  then we have about 22n vertices on each side and about 23n edges (each line contains 
                                  about 2n points,  and for each point there is about 2n lines going through it).  So 
                                  for most edges in the graph, the complexities C(x) and C(y) are close to 2n, the 
                                  complexity of the pair is close to 2n, and mutual information I{x\y) is close to n.
                                                309 Show that I(x:y) = n + O(logn) for all edges xy in this graph whose 
                                  complexity exceeds 3n — O(logn).
                                              To finish the alternative proof of Theorem 223, let us see what fraction of the 
                                  edges (in this graph) can be covered by 2l ln rectangles of size 2l ln x 2l ln.  (We 
                                  again use  1.1  as a, ß,  and 7.)  We can apply the lemma above to each rectangle
