                                                   3.4.   PROPERTIES  OF  MARTIN-LOF  RANDOMNESS                                                          69
                           The proof of Theorem 37 given above is a relativized version of the following 
                    result:
                            87  Assume that xq, x\ , X2,... is a computable sequence of binary strings, and
                    assume the sum
                                                                                       2-i(xi)
                    is  less  than  1  and is a computable real number.  Then there exists a computable 
                    sequence of zeros and ones that has neither of Xi as its prefix.
                           {Hint:  Let this sum be less than some rational S < 1.  By induction construct 
                    a computable sequence ujoujiuj2 • • •  with the following property:  the fraction of the 
                    set U — (J £lXi  among the sequences that have prefix ujq ■ ■ ■ u>k is less than S.)
                           This problem is related to the definition of randomness suggested by C. Schnorr 
                    in [166].  He gave a more restrictive definition of an effectively null set than Martin- 
                    Löf.  The additional requirement is that for every (rational) e > 0, the total measure 
                    of corresponding intervals  is  not  only  less  than  e  but  is  also  a computable  real 
                    (and the approximation algorithm computably depends on e).  This requirement 
                    is equivalent to the following one:  for every e > 0 and Ô > 0, one can effectively 
                    find out  how many terms in the series  JAp(x(e, г))  are needed to make the tail 
                    less than 5.  (For a series with non-negative terms the computability of the sum is 
                    equivalent to computable convergence.)
                           By  Schnorr  effectively  null  sets  we  mean  the  effectively  null  sets  according 
                    to  this  modified  definition.                   (Schnorr  calls  them  total  rekursive  Nullmenge,  see 
                    Definition 8.1  in  [166];  effectively null  sets  (as  in  the  Martin-Löf definition)  are 
                    called rekursive Nullmenge, see Definition 4.1 in [166].)
                            88             Let us change the definition of an effectively null set in another way:  now 
                    we require that the total measure of all intervals in the covering is exactly e.  Show 
                    that this definition is equivalent to the definition of a Schnorr effectively null set. 
                    (One can also consider the measure of the union of all intervals instead of the sum 
                    of measures.)
                           Problem 87 shows that for every Schnorr effectively null set there exists a com­
                    putable sequence outside this set.  (For simplicity let us consider the case of uniform 
                    measure.)  On the other hand, every computable sequence (i.e., the singleton made 
                    of it)  is  a Schnorr  effectively  null  set.  Therefore,  none of the Schnorr effectively 
                    null  sets  is  the  largest  one  in the class  (in other words,  the union of all  Schnorr 
                    effectively null sets is not a Schnorr effectively null set).  Nevertheless we can call a 
                    sequence which does not belong to any Schnorr null set a Schnorr random sequence 
                    (or Schnorr typical sequence).
                           Since now we have fewer effectively null sets, we may get the broader class of 
                    random sequences,  and this is indeed the case.  The following problem  (together 
                    with the results of Chapter 5) guarantees that there exist Schnorr random sequences 
                    that are not ML-random.
                            89 Prove that there exists a Schnorr random sequence w =                                                         • • •  whose
                    prefixes have logarithmic complexity, i.e., C{u>q • • -wn_i) = O(logn).
                           (Hint:  Problem 87 shows how one can construct a computable sequence that 
                    does  not  belong  to  a  given  Schnorr  effectively  null  set.  At  some  point  of this 
                    construction we can take into account another Schnorr effectively null set and get 
                    a computable sequence that does not belong to both.  (Indeed, we need to take a
