                                 5.7.  THE  RANDOM  NUMBER О                157
              The last two problems refer to a set of measure 1 that is a subset of the set of all 
          ML-random sequences. Its complement is a null set; if it were an effectively null set, 
          we would get another criterion for ML-randomness.  However, this is not the case. 
          Recently in [121, 148] it was shown that this set has a natural description:  it is the 
          set of ML-random sequences relativized to oracle O'; these sequences are sometimes 
          called 2-random (while ML-random sequences are called 1-random).  See [16] for a 
          simple proof.  There is a similar criterion with prefix complexity:  a sequence u> is 
          2-random if and only if K((oj)n) < n + К (n) — c for some c and for infinitely many 
          n [124]  (see also [5] for a simple proof).
                               5.7.  The random number Q,
              The following theorem provides an interesting application of the randomness 
          criterion given in the previous section.  Let m be a maximal lower semicomputable 
          semimeasure on the set of natural numbers (e.g, let m(x) be equal to 2~K^X')\ we 
          can use also the distribution on the outputs of the universal probabilistic machine, 
          see Chapter 4).  Chaitin suggested considering the number
                                       Q, = y^m(n)
                                           П
          (the halting probability for the universal probabilistic machine; the sum of the max­
          imal lower semicomputable series) and made the following interesting observation:
              Theorem 100.  The binary representation of Г2 is ML-random with respect to 
          the uniform distribution.
             Note that the value of П depends of the choice of a maximal lower semicom­
          putable semimeasure, but the statement remains true for every choice.
              Proof.  Assume that the first n binary digits of Q, are given.  They form the 
          binary representation of a number Qn which is a lower bound for Q, with approxima­
          tion error at most 2~n.  Generate lower bounds for m(0), m(l), m(2),... in parallel 
          until  the sum of these lower bounds becomes greater than Q,n — 2~n.  This does 
          happen at some point since the sum of the series is Q, and hence is greater than our 
          threshold.  Then make a list of all i that appear in this sum (with a non-zero lower 
          bound for m(i)).
             Note that this list includes all i such that m(i)  ^ 2 • 2~n  (if some i with this 
          property were omitted, the approximation error would exceed 2~n).  Therefore, all i 
          such that K(i) < n — c (for some c that depends on the choice of the function m but 
          not on n) appear in this list.  Thus, the minimal integer that is not in the list has 
          complexity at least n — c.  This implies that both the list itself (which determines 
          this minimal integer)  and the n-bit prefix of Q,  (which allows us to construct the 
          list;  note that  n is determined by this prefix)  have complexity at  least n — c' for 
          some other c' and for all n.  It remains to use the randomness criterion in its prefix 
          complexity version (Theorems 92 and 94).                          □
             One can define the notion of a (Martin-Löf) random real number directly.  A 
          set X of reals is an effectively null set if there is an algorithm that for any rational 
          £  >  0  enumerates  a  cover  of X  by  intervals  with  rational  endpoints  and  total 
          measure  (length)  at  most  e.  A  real  number  is  ML-random  (with respect  to  the 
          standard measure on R) if it does not belong to any effectively null set (=does not 
          belong to the largest effectively null set).
