             398             12.  MULTISOURCE  ALGORITHMIC INFORMATION THEORY
             For every B € B2n let the set  {T(B, •)}  be the set of all 2?r-bit strings that have 
             conditional complexity given В less than n — 2 log n.  Let (for given p.q.r) the set 
             VPiQ,r(B,-)  be the set of all g-bit strings of conditional complexity  (given В)  less 
             than r.  And let (for given p, g, r) the set Wp,q,r(B', •) be the set of all 2n-bit strings 
             of conditional  complexity  (given  В')  less  than p.  (We specify only  the range of 
             these mappings,  the order can  be arbitrary.  Also,  the number of strings with a 
             given property may be less than the number of slots, so we fill the remaining slots 
             in an arbitrary way.)
                 We know that U is not covered by this quadruple.  This means that there exist 
             strings A and В of length 2n that do not satisfy any of the properties (l)-(4).  Then 
             C(A) = 2n + 0(1)  (because A has length 2n and cannot have smaller complexity, 
             otherwise it  would be covered by S).  For the same reasons C(B)  =  2n + 0(1). 
             The conditional complexity C(A\B) equals n + 0(logn):  it cannot be bigger since 
             A = U(B,X) for some string X of length n, and the complexity of U is O(logn), 
             and it cannot be smaller, since otherwise the property (3) would be true.  Finally, 
             there is no triple  (p,g,r)  in the set M such that C(B'\B) < r and C(A\B') < p, 
             otherwise (4) would be true.
                 The rest of the proof is the same as in the game argument,  and this finishes 
             the probabilistic proof.
                 Finally, one can provide a geometric construction that gives strings A, В with 
             the required property.  (Unlike the case of common information, here the geometric 
             construction gives almost the same complexity bound, not weaker ones.)
                 Consider the field with 2n elements (or a field of approximately this size, if we 
             want to consider integers modulo p for some prime p), and a two-dimensional plane 
             over this field.  Let (A, B) be a random pair that consists of a point and a line going 
             through this point.  Then we get complexities as required by Theorem 237.  Let us 
             show that such a pair has the required properties.
                 Assume that a string B' is given and
             (*)                  C(B' \B) ^ r,     C(B')^q,  C(A\B')^p
             for  some p, g, r.  We want to prove that  the pair  (p, g)  is  in  an  0(r) + 0(\ogn)- 
             neighborhood of the set G by showing that otherwise the pair  (A, B)  would have 
             smaller complexity.  Let  us estimate the number of pairs  (A, В)  such that  (*)  is 
             satisfied for some B'.  Each of the 2q strings B' determines two sets:
                     •  the set Ub>  of 2n-bit strings A such that C(A \ B' )      ;
                     •  the set Vb>  of 2n-bit strings В such that C(B'\B) ^ r.
             The set Ub' has cardinality 2P (in fact, 0(2P), but we ignore bounded factors).  The 
             set  Vb>  may have different sizes depending on the choice of В', but we know that 
             the family Vb<  for all B' covers the set B2n in at most 2r layers (for each В there 
             are at most 2r strings B' that are r-simple given B).
                 We want to show that the union of the combinatorial rectangles  Ub'  x  Vb> 
             over all B' covers only a small fraction of all pairs of incident point and lines.  To 
             bound the number of pairs covered by these rectangles, we use the same technique 
             as before:  the incidence graph does not have cycles of length 4,  so we can apply 
             the combinatorial lemma (p. 358).  Let us recall the statement of this lemma.  If a 
             rectangular table I x L has stars in some cells and one cannot find two rows and 
             two columns that have stars at all four intersections, then the total number of stars
