                                           8.5.  FORBIDDEN  SUBSTRINGS                             245
                  8.5.2.      Lovâsz  local  lemma.  We  have  seen  how  a  statement  about  Kol­
             mogorov complexity (the existence of a sequence without simple substrings) may be 
             used to prove the combinatorial version of this result  (the existence of a sequence 
             without forbidden strings).  In this section we move in the opposite direction.  We 
             start  with  a combinatorial  statement  (namely,  the Lovâsz local lemma)  and use 
             it  to  prove statements about Kolmogorov complexity.  But first let us make some 
             general remarks.
                  Probabilistic  existence proofs.  To  prove that  there exists an object  satisfying 
             some conditions, one can consider a probability distribution on objects and compute 
             for each condition the probability that it is violated.  If these probabilities are very 
             small  and their sum  (over all conditions)  is less than  1,  the random object with 
             positive probability satisfies all the conditions, and the existence is proven.
                  In this argument we use the following (trivial) property:  If the probability of 
             an event Ai  is at most e*, then the probability of the union of the events A\,...An 
             is bounded by the sum of e*, and the probability of avoiding all these events is at 
             least
                                              1 — £\ — £2 — ' ' ' ~ £n-
                  When computing probabilities, we often count  “bad” elements in some class; if 
             the total number of bad elements is less than the cardinality of the class, there exist 
             “good”  elements.  This reasoning can also be translated to complexity language: 
             If there are only a few bad elements, then bad elements have small complexity, so 
             every random (incompressible) element of the class is good.
                  However, we cannot use arguments of this type to prove Theorem 157.  Indeed 
             the probability of finding a bad string in a given position is small  (2(a-1)n),  but 
             if there are many possible positions,  the sum of probabilities  exceeds  1.  (Recall 
             that we need to prove the existence of arbitrarily long strings without  forbidden 
             substrings.)  However, there is an important observation that can be used to save 
             the argument:  If two positions are disjoint (do not overlap), then the appearance of 
             a bad string in the first position and in the second position are independent events. 
             This is what the Lovâsz local lemma is about.
                  The case of independent events.  Let us consider first the case when all events 
             Ai are independent.  If the probability of Ai equals e*, then the probability of the 
             event  “none of Ai happens”  is equal to
                                         (1 -ei) • (1 - £ 2) ■ ••• • (1 - £ n)
             (and  it  is  also  greater  than  1  — eq  — £2  —  ■ ■ •,  as  guaranteed  by  the  Bernoulli 
             inequality).
                 So for any independent Ai  the probability of avoiding all Ai  is positive even if 
             the sum of £i  exceeds 1; the only thing we need is that each £i  is less than 1.
                 The Lovâsz local lemma deals with an intermediate situation when there are 
             many events (so our first observation does not help),  and not all events are inde­
             pendent (so our second observation does not help either).
                 Assume that n events A i,..., An are given, and for each i G  {1,..., n} some 
             set  N(i)  C  {1,... ,n}  is  fixed that  does not  contain i.  The elements of N(i)  are 
             called neighbors of i in the sequel.  (We do not require the neighborhood relation 
             to be symmetric, so a number may not be a neighbor of its neighbor.)
                 Assume that each event  Ai  is  independent  with all other events,  except  for 
             i  itself and г’s neighbors  (for simplicity we identify index i and event  Ai).  More
