                                     6.4.  COMPLEXITIES  AND  ORACLES                      203
                In particular, for a given set A we may define the notion of Л-relativized Kol­
            mogorov complexity allowing decompressors to use oracle A.  This can be done for 
            plain, prefix, and all other versions of complexity that we have considered (uncon­
            ditional or conditional).  The use of an oracle is shown by a superscript,  so,  e.g., 
            KA(x) denotes prefix complexity relativized by oracle A.
                In  fact  we  can  do  a bit  more:  instead  of defining complexity for a given  or­
            acle  A  up  to  an  0(l)-additive  term  (by  proving  the existence  of an  optimal  Л- 
            decompressor), we may define (with the same precision) the function of two argu­
            ments:
                                             (A, X) i—У kA(x)
            (here к is one of the complexity versions, say, К or KM).
                 204 Show that this indeed can be done and that the resulting complexities
            coincide with the limits of conditional complexities defined in Section 6.3: 
                               KA(x) = KA=(x) =  lim  K{~,= |Ж)(ж|An),
            where  An  is  the  prefix  of length  n  of the  characteristic  sequence  of the  set  A. 
            (Similar statements are true for other complexity versions.)
                Note that relativized complexity does not exceed the non-relativized one  (up 
            to 0 (1)), since the algorithm with an oracle is not obliged to use it, so all decom­
            pressors are Л-decompressors.
                For  some oracles Л  and some strings  x  the Л-complexity of x  can  be  much 
            smaller than oracle-free complexity.  For example, let Л be the universal enumerable 
            set:  This set is usually denoted by O'.  In other words, the O'-oracle is an oracle for 
            the halting problem.  We may send any program (with its input) to this oracle, and 
            the oracle will tell us whether this program terminates for this input.
                Using this oracle,  we  can  find  for  every  string  x  its  shortest  description  (in 
            the standard sense,  without  oracle)  since the oracle tells  us which  computations 
            terminate.  Therefore,  the function  C is  O'-computable  (the same is true for  K, 
            conditional complexities, etc.), and the list of all strings of complexity less than n 
            (that  has n + 0 (l)-complexity without the oracle),  as well as the numbers B(n) 
            and BB(n) (see Section 1.2) now have O'-complexity only 0 (log?2).
                On the other hand, most strings of length n have O'-complexity n — 0(1), and 
            therefore their O'-complexity is close to their non-relativized  complexity  (and  to 
            their length).
                 205       Assume that for some set Л its use  (as an oracle) does not change the 
            plain complexity function,  i.e.,  C(x) = CA(x) + 0(1).  Show that Л is decidable. 
            Show that the same is true also for KM, KR, К A  instead of C.
                (Hint:  One can characterize the computability of a binary sequence in terms 
            of complexities of its prefixes, see Problem 49, p. 42.)
                It  is  not  the  case  for  prefix  complexity:  there  exist  К -low  sets  that  do  not 
            change prefix complexity being used as oracles.  This is a very important  recent 
            result  (see  [147,  49], or the popular exposition in  [20]).
                This  result  implies  that  there  is  no  formula  that  can  express  the  value  of 
            plain (monotone, decision, a priori) complexities in terms of prefix complexity with 
            0(Imprecision.  Note that the same is true for conditional  prefix complexity:  it 
            cannot  be  expressed  in  terms  of the  unconditional  one,  since  it  determines  the 
            class of computable functions.  Indeed,  a sequence a is computable if and only if
