            4                  INTRODUCTION.  WHAT IS THIS  BOOK ABOUT?
            language.  If y is a shortest description of the string x with respect to P, then Py 
            is  a  description  of x  with  respect  to  D  (though  not  necessarily  a shortest  one). 
            Therefore, compared to P, the shortest description is at most l(P) bits longer, and
                                         CD(x)^CP(x) + l(P).
            The constant l(P) depends only on the description mode P (and not on x).      □
                Basically,  we  used  the  same  trick  as  in  the  preceding  example,  but  instead 
            of merging two  description  modes,  we join  all  of them.  Each  description  mode 
            is  prefixed  by  its  index  (program,  identifier).  The same  idea is used  in practice. 
            A  self-extracting  archive  is  an  executable  file  starting  with  a  small  program  (a 
            decompressor); the rest is considered as an input to that program.  This program 
            is loaded into the memory, and then it decompresses the rest of the file.
                Note that in our construction, the optimal decompressor works for a very long 
            time on some inputs (as some programs have large running time) and is undefined 
            on some other inputs.
                                      Kolmogorov complexity
                Fix an optimal description mode D and call Cd(x) the Kolmogorov complexity 
            of the string x.  In the notation Cx>(.t) we drop the subscript D and write just C(x).
                If we switch to another optimal description mode, the change in complexity is 
            bounded by an additive constant:  for any two optimal description modes D\  and 
            D2 there is a constant c(D\, D2) such that
                                     ICDl(x) - Cd2{x)\ < c(Dx,D2)
            for all x.  Sometimes this inequality is written as
                                       CdAx) = Cd2(x) + 0 (1),
            where 0 (1) stands for a bounded function of x.
                Could we then  consider the Kolmogorov complexity of a particular string x 
            without having in mind a specific optimal description mode used in the definition 
            of С(.т)?  No,  since by adjusting the optimal description mode, we can make the 
            complexity of x arbitrarily small or arbitrarily large.  Similarly, the relation “string x 
            is simpler than ÿ\  that is,  C(x) < C(y), has no meaning for two fixed strings x 
            and y:  by adjusting the optimal description mode, we can make any of these two 
            strings simpler than the other one.
                One may then wonder whether Kolmogorov complexity has any sense at all. 
            Trying to defend this notion, let us recall the construction of the optimal description 
            mode used in the proof of the Solomonoff-Kolmogorov theorem.  This construction 
            uses some programming language, and two different choices of this language lead 
            to two complexities that differ at most by a constant.  This constant is in fact the 
            length of the program that is written in one of these two languages and interprets 
            the other one.  If both languages are  “natural”, we can expect this constant to be 
            not  that  huge,  just  several  thousands  or even several hundreds.  Therefore if we 
            speak about strings whose complexity is, say, about 105  (i.e., a text of a long and 
            not very compressible novel), or 106  (which is reasonable for DNA strings,  unless 
            they are compressible much more than the biologists think now), then the choice 
            of the programming language is not that important.
                Nevertheless one should always have in mind that all statements about  Kol­
            mogorov complexity are inherently asymptotic:  they involve infinite sequences of
