                           4.  A  PRIORI  PROBABILITY  AND  PREFIX  COMPLEXITY
            92
            is, let D'(y) = z if D(y) = г, and at the same time D(y') is undefined for all proper 
            prefixes y'  of y.  This transformation is an inverse of the transformation used in 
            the proof of the last theorem; the resulting function D' is indeed prefix free.  The 
            problem is that it might be non-computable.
                 98  Find a computable prefix-stable function D for which the prefix-free func­
            tion D' constructed in this way is not computable.
                (Hint:  Let A be an enumerable undecidable set, whose complement is thus not 
            enumerable.  Let /(0п11ж) = 0 for all natural numbers n and all binary strings x. 
            Also let /(Onlx) = 0 for all n G A and all x.)
                This problem shows that, in a sense, the non-blocking read operation is more 
            powerful than the blocking one (see Section 4.4).
                Theorem 56.
                                      — logm(x) < K(x) + 0(1).
                Proof.  We have to prove that 2~K^   < cm(x) for some constant c and for 
            all  x.  Recall  that  m  is  the  maximal  lower  semicomputable  semimeasure.  Thus 
            it  suffices  to  find  an  upper  bound  for  the  function  x  i-»  2" ^   that  is  a  lower 
            semicomputable semimeasure.  (In this section we consider discrete semimeasures 
            on the set of all binary strings, as defined in Section 4.1.)
                Let  us  construct  a probabilistic  machine  generating this  semimeasure.  Toss 
            a coin to obtain a sequence 606162 • • •  of random bits.  Simultaneously,  apply the 
            optimal prefix-stable decompressor D (from the definition of К) to all prefixes of 
            the sequence 606162,....  If one of the computations
                                  D(A),D(b0), D(b0bi), D(b0bib2),...
            terminates with a certain result, output that result and halt.  Note that it does not 
            matter which of the terminating computations we choose:  the prefix-stability of D 
            guarantees that this choice does not affect the result.
                Let x be a binary string, and let p be a shortest description of x with respect 
            to  D.  Then the machine outputs x  with probability  at  least  2~l^p\  Indeed,  if 
            the random sequence starts with p, then the result of the machine is x.  Thus the 
            constructed machine generates a measure that is an upper bound for 2~K^ .    □
               There is a slightly different proof of the same theorem, which does not involve 
            probabilistic machines.  The function x ^  2~K^X')  is lower semicomputable.  Thus 
            it is enough to show that it is a semimeasure.
               Theorem 57.
                                            ]T2< 1.
                                             X
               Proof.  For every string x let px be some shortest description of x (with respect 
           to  the  optimal  prefix-stable  function  from  the  definition  of К).  For  every  two 
           different strings x and у the strings px and py are incompatible.  Thus the statement 
           is a direct corollary of the following:
               Lemma.  Let po,Pi,P2> • • •  be pairwise incompatible strings  (that is, neither of 
            the strings is a prefix of another one).  Then JT 2~1^  < 1.
               Indeed, for every i consider the set QPi of all infinite extensions of pi.  Its uniform 
           Bernoulli measure is equal to 2~l(pi').  As the strings pi are pairwise incompatible,
