                                9.9.  MARTINGALES  AND  SCHNORR RANDOMNESS                       283
             strings in the kth group have length in the interval [п^,п^+1).  Indeed, every string 
             Xi  can be replaced by a group of strings of some large length (the interval is split 
             into  many intervals of the same size),  and we can do this for all X{  sequentially 
             using longer and longer strings (this does not change the covering property and the 
             sums in groups).
                 Consider now separately the strings from kth group.  The corresponding inter­
             vals have total measure less that 4“fc, and there exists a martingale      that reaches 
             4k on all these strings.  Now we mix all these martingales and get a combined mar­
             tingale m =      2~knik-  It  reaches  2k  at  the strings of kth group.  It  remains to 
             let g(n) = 2k for all n between nk  and n^+i  and note that infinitely many groups 
             contain prefixes of oj.
                 Now the reverse direction.  Assume that  a computable martingale  m  and  a 
             total unbounded computable function g are given.  We need to cover a sequence oj 
             for which we know only that m(ojQ • • -ojn-i) ^ g(n) for infinitely many n.  And the 
             measure of this cover should not exceed some given e > 0 and be computable.  How 
             do we do this?
                 First of all, we increase g at some initial segment of N and assume that it is at 
             least  \fe + 1  everywhere  (this does not matter when we speak about events that 
             happen infinitely often).  Now we consider all the strings in the order of increasing 
             lengths and select those where m exceeds g.  (More precisely, since we know rn only 
             with some precision, we select strings in such a way that m > g — 1 for all selected 
             strings and all strings with m > g are selected.)
                 The assumption guarantees that the intervals, which correspond to the selected 
             strings,  cover oj.  Since for  these strings  the martingale is at  least  1/e,  the total 
             measure of intervals does not exceed e.  Finally, the sum of measures is computable: 
             To find it with error at most 5, we wait until g becomes bigger than 1/5 + 1; all the 
             subsequent (longer) intervals can change the sum of measures at most by 5.           □
                 A similar  argument  can  be  used  to  prove  the  following  criterion  of Schnorr 
             randomness in terms of prefix complexity [10]:
                  270 Prove that a sequence oj is Schnorr random with respect to a computable
             measure g if and only if for every computable total upper bound к for prefix com­
             plexity and for every non-decreasing unbounded computable function h: N —>  N 
             the inequality
                                   К(и)п) ^ -  log2 At(fi(w)n) -  h(n) -  0(1)
             holds for all n (the constant in 0(1) does not depend on n).
                 (Hint :  For computable к and h the cover constructed in the proof of the Levin- 
             Schnorr theorem has computable measure.  The argument in the other direction is 
             similar to the proof of the preceding theorem:  We split  the cover into groups of 
             strings of the same length, where the nth group has total measure less than 4“", 
             increase the measure of strings in nth group to get 2~n instead of 4n, and use the 
             Kraft-Chaitin lemma to get a computable bound for prefix complexity;  h can be 
             found since all strings in the nth group have the same length.)
                 This result can be used to show that there exists a Schnorr random sequence 
             (with respect to uniform measure) that is not Mises-Church random [10].  Indeed, 
             it  shows that  if K((oj)n)  >  n — h(n) — 0(1) for some non-decreasing unbounded 
             function h that tends to infinity slower than every computable non-decreasing un­
             bounded function,  then oj  is  Schnorr  random.  Such  functions  h  exist  (diagonal
