                                     5.6.  LEVIN-SCHNORR THEOREM                        145
                                          p( o)                 P( 1)
                               P( oo)         p(01)        p(10)  p( 11)
                                  Figure  12.  The construction of ^
                Proof.  The  idea of the proof can  be  explained  as  follows.  The  difference 
            between KM and KA  appears because we are unable to allocate contiguous space 
            to hierarchical users’ requests, since we do not know which of the current requests 
            will increase in the future.  However, if we have a measure (and not a semimeasure), 
            we can solve this problem and allocate contiguous intervals.  (Feel free to ignore 
            this metaphor if it is confusing:  we provide a formal proof in the next paragraphs.)
                For each string x we define an interval ttx inside [0,1].  The interval ttx is defined 
            in such a way that:
                   •  the length of тгх equals p(x);
                  •  7Гд = [0,1]  (here A is the empty string);
                  •  for each string x the interval nx  is split by some its point  into intervals 
                     ttxq  (left part) and irx\  (right part)
            (see Figure 12).
                We consider also another family of intervals that corresponds to the uniform 
            measure.  Let Ix be the interval of reals whose binary representation starts with x. 
            We call the intervals Ix  binary intervals.
                Now consider the set G of all pairs (x, y) of strings such that (binary) interval 
            Ix  is located inside the interior of 7ry.  The set G is enumerable.  Indeed, since the 
            function p is computable, we can find the endpoints of intervals iry with arbitrary 
            precision, and if they are strictly greater (or less) than some rational number, this 
            fact will be discovered eventually.
                Note also that the property  (x,y)  G  G remains true if we replace x by some 
            extension (since Ix becomes smaller) or replace y by any prefix (since iry becomes 
            larger).  If (x,y\)  G  G and  (x,y2)  G  G, the segments iryi  and тгУ2  have a common 
            interior point (they both contain Ix), therefore the strings y\ and У2 are compatible. 
            So Theorem 81  (p.  127) guarantees that there exists a computable mapping of E 
            into  itself whose  lower  graph  is  G.  We  use  this  mapping  as  the  decompressor 
            in the definition of monotone complexity.  Then KMo(y) equals the minus binary 
            logarithm of the biggest binary interval that is located strictly inside iry.  It remains 
            for us to note that any open interval of length h contains a closed binary interval 
            of length h/4 and to compare D with the optimal decompressor.                □
               1141  Prove the claim about binary intervals (see above).
                (Hint:  Let и be a power of 2 such that  h/4  <  и  <  h/2. Then any interval
            of length  h intersects  at  least  three consecutive binary  intervals  of length и  and 
            contains the middle one.)
               Theorem 89 provides a theoretical justification for the following approach used 
            by Kolmogorov and his students to get upper bounds for the complexity of Russian 
            texts.  While reading the text  (one letter at a time), the reader tries to guess the 
            next letter.  The guess is formulated as a probability distribution over the alphabet.
