                                         5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
             170
             all  approximations,  not only the prefix of the binary expansion.  However,  it can 
            be proven in a similar way.
                 Let  c  be  some  integer.  Consider  an  effectively  open  set  Uc  constructed  as 
            follows.  For  every  rational  r  we  consider  the  neighborhood  around  r  of radius 
            2-K(r)-c.^  ^he se£  jjc  is  thg  union  0f these  neighborhoods.  (Since  K(r)  is  upper 
            semicomputable, it is indeed an effectively open set.)  The total length of all intervals 
            is 2 • 2~c          ^ 2“(C_I).  Therefore, the sequence Uc forms a Martin-Löf test,
            and random a does not belong to Uc for some c.  This means that complexity of 
            2“m-approximations of a is at least m — 0(1).
                 In  the  other  direction  we  can  use  the  Levin-Schnorr  theorem  without  any 
            changes:  if N(2~m)  ^  BP(m — c),  then K(i)  ^  m — 0(1)  for every i such that 
            ai  is  a 2-m-approximation to a.  Therefore, the m-bit prefix of a has complexity 
            at least m — 0(1), since by knowing this prefix, we can effectively find an     that 
            exceeds it  (and the corresponding г).                                            □
                 Remark.  Note that this theorem shows equivalence between two formaliza­
            tions of an intuitive idea of “slowly converging series”  (or three, if we consider the 
            Solovay reducibility as a way to compare the rate of convergence).  However,  the 
            proof goes through Martin-Löf randomness of the sum (where the series itself dis­
            appears) .  It would be nice to find a more direct proof and (maybe) to connect the 
            Solovay reducibility  (not only completeness)  to the properties of the convergence 
            moduli.
                Reformulating the definition of BP (m) in terms of a priori probability, we may 
            define BP(m) as the minimal N such that all n > N have a priori probability less 
            than 2~m.  However, in terms of a priori probability the other definition looks more 
            natural:  let BP'(m) be the minimal N such that the total a priori probability of all 
            n > N is less than 2~m.  Generally speaking, BP'(m) can be greater than BP(m) 
            (see  [4]),  but  it  turns out  that  it  still can  be used  to  characterize randomness in 
            the same way:
                Theorem 115.  Let ai  be a computable increasing sequence of rational numbers 
            that converges  to  a random number a.  Then N(2~m)  ^  BP'(m — c) for some c 
            and for all m.
                P r o o f.  Since all г  >  N(2~m)  have the same a priori probability as the cor­
            responding ai  (up to  an  O(l)-factor),  it  is enough to show that for every m the 
            sum of a priori probabilities of all rational numbers in the 2“m-neighborhood of a 
            random a is 0(2~m) (recall that for each i > N(2~m) the corresponding a* belongs 
            to this neighborhood).
                As usual, we go in the other direction and cover all  “bad”  a that do not have 
            this property by a set of small measure.  Not having this property means that for 
            every c there exists an m such that  the sum of a priori probabilities of rational 
            numbers in the 2~m-neighborhood of a exceeds c2~m.  For a given c, we consider 
            all intervals with rational endpoints that have the following property:  the sum of a 
            priori probabilities  of all rational numbers in this  interval is more  than c/2  times 
            bigger than the interval’s  length.  Every bad a is covered by an interval with this 
            property (the endpoints of the interval (a — 2~m, a + 2~m) can be changed slightly 
            to make them rational), and the set of intervals having this property is enumerable. 
            It  is  enough to show that the union of all such intervals has measure  0(l/c),  in 
            fact, at most 4/c.
