                                                               3.5.   RANDOMNESS  DEFICIENCIES                                                           73
                    for every positive rational c.  Informally, such a test finds regularities in w in such 
                    a way that (a) sequences with a lot of regularities (where the test value is greater 
                    than some c) form a small set  (of measure at most 1/c) and (b) if a sequence has 
                    some regularity (test value is big), this regularity will be eventually found (the lower 
                    semicomputablity requirement).
                           Theorem 41.  For every computable measure p on the Cantor space there ex­
                    ists  a maximal  (up to a constant factor) probability-bounded randomness test with 
                    respect to p.  Its binary logarithm coincides with the universal test from Theorem 39 
                    up to an additive constant.
                           Proof.  An arbitrary probability bounded test can be replaced by test with 
                    values  of the  form  2n.  We replace u(cu)  by  the maximal  power of 2  that  is less 
                    than u(lo).  The new test is still lower semicomputable and differs from the original 
                    one at most by a constant factor.  The probability bounded test of this restricted 
                    form corresponds to a decreasing sequence of uniformly effectively open sets,  and 
                    the  the probability  bound  means that  this sequence forms a randomness  test  in 
                    the Martin-Löf sense.  The reverse translation is also possible.  It remains to use 
                    Theorem 39.                                                                                                                         □
                           There is another slightly different notion of a randomness test.  An expectation- 
                    bounded randomness test uses a stronger restriction on the (lower semicomputable 
                    non-negative) function u:                            j  u(lu) dp(cu) ^ 1.
                          Theorem 42.  For every computable measure on the  Cantor space there is  a 
                    maximal (up to a constant factor) expectation-bounded randomness test with respect 
                    to this measure.
                          Proof.  We can enumerate all lower semicomputable functions on the Cantor 
                    space.  (For example, we can use their representations as supremums of enumerable 
                    sets  of basic  functions.)  Furthermore,  one  can  “trim”  a  lower  semicomputable 
                    function and guarantee that its integral does not exceed 2, and the functions whose 
                    integral  is  at  most  1  remain  unchanged  after  the  trimming.  This  can  be  done 
                    effectively (recall that the measure is computable).  In this way we get a sequence 
                    of uniformly lower semicomputable functions ui,U2,... that includes all tests and 
                    consists  only  of almost-tests  (up  to  factor  2).  Adding  all  the  functions  of this 
                    sequence (with computable coefficients that form a converging series with sum at 
                    most 1/2), we get a maximal expectation-bounded randomness test.                                                                    □
                          Fix some maximal probability-bounded (or expectation-bounded) randomness 
                    test with respect to a computable measure p.  The logarithm of it is called proba­
                    bility-bounded  (resp.  expectation-bounded)  randomness  deficiency with respect to 
                    p.  We will denote these deficiencies as dp and dp.  (We assume that the measure 
                    p is fixed and omit it in the notation.)
                          Theorem 43.
                                                       dp(w) — 21ogdp(w) ^ dp(w) < dp(w).
                          Both inequalities are true with 0(l)-precision (and the quantities that appear 
                    in them are well defined with the same precision).
