           266        9.  FREQUENCY  AND  GAME APPROACHES  TO  RANDOMNESS
           binary and concatenate all these strings, we get a normal sequence 
                        110111001011101111000100110101011- - •
           (Champernowne’s example [36];  he considered base  10,  but this does not matter 
           much).
               259  Prove this statement.
              (Hint:  Fix k, the block size.  Starting from some point, the numbers have many 
           more than к digits, and after that the boundaries between numbers do not change 
           the frequencies significantly.  And the average of block frequencies in all strings of a 
           given length N is as it should be.  (Some care is needed to deal with the case when 
           we stop in the middle of strings of length N.))
              This construction of a computable normal sequence is performed for one base, 
           and we cannot  use it  to  get  a computable  absolutely normal  number.  But  such 
           a number (whose 6-ary representation is a computable normal sequence for every 
           base n) exists.  This observation was made long ago by Turing in his unpublished 
           notes; see [8].
               260  Prove that a computable absolutely normal number exist.
              (Hint:  Numbers that are not normal in base 6, form a Schnorr effectively null 
           set;  this  is  true  for  all  b,  and  the union of these sets is  also  a Schnorr effectively 
           null set, so there exists a computable point outside it.)
              Unlike  normal  sequences,  Mises-Church  random  sequences  cannot  be  com­
           putable for obvious reasons  (otherwise we can select a sequence of zeros or a se­
           quence of ones by a computable rule).  Moreover, the following statement is true:
              Theorem 169.  For every total algorithm that gets bits of a sequence from left to 
           right and predicts the next bit before getting it, the fraction of successful predictions 
           for a Mises-Church random sequence tends to 1/2.
              Proof.  Indeed,  a (total)  algorithm that makes predictions can be converted 
           into two selection rules:  one selects the terms where the algorithm predicts zero, the 
           other selects the terms where the algorithm predicts one.  So our sequence is split 
           into a  “mixture”  of two subsequences,  and Mises-Church randomness guarantees 
           that each of the two sequences is  balanced  (or finite,  but  then  the statement  is 
           trivial).  So the fraction of successful predictions for each subsequence tends to 1/2; 
           so the total fraction of successful predictions tends to 1/2.         □
              This statement can be generalized further.  Consider the following game:  before 
           the next  term of the sequence appears,  we may make a bet on zero or one;  the 
           amount of a bet is a rational number in [0,1].  If our guess is correct, we get the 
           doubled amount;  if not,  we lose the money.  A strategy in a game of this type is 
           a function S whose arguments are binary strings  (the bits already disclosed)  and 
           the values are rational numbers in  [—1,1].  The positive values mean that we bet 
           on 0, the negative values mean that we bet on 1.  The total gain of the strategy S 
           playing with the initial segment шо • • • шп-1 is then
                                   71—1 
                                   i= 0
           the negative values correspond to our loss (in this game we can go below zero).
