            74                        3.  M ARTIN-LÖF  RANDOMNESS
                P r o o f.  The second inequality is obvious since every expectation-bounded test 
            is also probability-bounded.  To prove the first inequality, we need to show that the 
            function
                                       u{ ш) = 2dP(w)-21°sdP(w) 
            has finite integral.  (We need и to  be lower semicomputable;  this is because the 
            function X — 2 log X is an increasing function—strictly speaking, this is not true for 
            small values of x,  but  these values  are not  important  for finite integral,  and the 
            function can be corrected there.)
                To check that f  u(w) dfi(u) is finite, note that the set of <x such that dp(cj) is 
            in between n and n + 1, has measure at most  l/2n  (since 2dC  exceeds 2n on this 
            set),  and the function и on this set is bounded by 0(2n/n2).  It remains to note 
            that the series ^  1/n2 converges.                                           □
                93 Show that the constant 2 in Theorem 43 can be replaced by an arbitrary
            number greater than 1.
                We have shown,  in particular,  that  each type of test  can be used to give an 
            equivalent definition of Martin-Löf randomness (we have already discussed this for 
            a probability-bounded test):  a sequence is ML-random if and only it its randomness 
            deficiency is finite.
                The difference between probability- and expectation-bounded tests resembles 
            the difference between plain complexity C (studied so far)  and prefix complexity 
            К (see the next chapter).
                As we have said, randomness tests were introduced and studied in the 1960s and 
            1970s  (probability-bounded tests were introduced in a form of sequences of open 
            sets by Martin-Löf; expectation-bounded were considered by Levin and Gacs) but 
            then almost forgotten until recently.  For more information about these tests and 
            their applications, see  [13].  Recently G. Novikov  [149]  has studied the difference 
            between different versions of randomness deficiencies.
