             70                          3.  M ARTIN-LOF  RANDOMNESS
             sufficiently small cover for the second set that does not go out of the safety margin 
             in  the  construction for the first  set.)  Moreover,  we can consider infinitely many 
             Schnorr  effectively  null  sets  in  this  way  (adding  them  one  after  another).  This 
             will not give us a computable Schnorr random sequence (it does not exist at all), 
             because we need additional information that tells us which algorithms correspond to 
             Schnorr effectively null sets and which do not.  But if we postpone the introduction 
             of a new algorithm until the moment when the constructed prefix of our sequence 
             is  rather  long,  this  additional  information  is  logarithmic  compared to  the prefix 
             length.)
                 We return to  Schnorr’s  definition  of randomness  in  Section  9.8  where  it  is 
             reformulated in terms of computable martingales.
                  90 Prove that a sequence ui is not Schnorr random if and only if there exists a
             computable sequence of strings xq, aq,... such that the series     Pixi) computably 
             converges (has a computable sum) and infinitely many of Xi are prefixes of cj.
                 {Hint:  This is  a version of Theorem 31  for Schnorr randomness and can be 
             proven in a similar way.  In fact, in this case even the standard proof of the Borel- 
             Cantelli lemma works.)
                 Another version of effectively null  sets  is  obtained  if we  consider  only  finite 
             families  of intervals  (each  family  is  presented  as  the  list  of all  intervals  in  the 
             family):  Given a rational e,  the algorithm should output a finite list of intervals 
             that cover the set and have a sum of measures less than e.  This corresponds to the 
             Jordan construction of measure often used in elementary calculus textbooks.  In 
             this way we get a smaller class of null sets (e.g., a null set cannot cover all rational 
             points).
                  91  Prove that a set is an effectively null set in this sense if and only if it is 
             contained in the complement of some effectively open set of measure 1.
                 The sequences not covered by any effectively null sets in this sense (=contained 
             in  every  effectively  open  set  of full  measure)  are  called  Kurtz  random.  In  this 
            definition we again restrict  the class of effectively null sets and therefore enlarge 
            the  class  of random  sequences.  Indeed  we  get  more  random  sequences,  as  the 
            following problem shows.
                  92 Show that every Schnorr random sequence (with respect to uniform mea-
            sure) satisfies the Strong Law of Large Numbers, but there exists a Kurtz random 
            sequence that does not.
                 {Hint\  The proof of the Strong Law of Large Numbers gives a cover with a 
            computable sum of measures since the series converges exponentially fast.  For the 
            second part, one can consider generic sequences; see Section 5.9, p.  178.)
                                      3.5.  Randomness deficiencies
                 Martin-Löf’s definition requires that  for an effectively null set  A  there  is  an 
            algorithm that, given e > 0, produces a cover of A by intervals whose total measure 
            does not exceed e.  The union of these intervals in an open set of measure at most e.
                 In general, the unions of computable sequences of intervals are called effectively 
             open sets.  As in the definition of effectively null sets  (p.  59),  we allow the com­
            putable sequence to be non-total, so the empty set is also effectively open.  In other 
            words, an effectively open set is a union of an enumerable family of intervals.
                 Now the definition of an effectively null set can be reformulated as follows:
