                                    3.2.  THE  STRONG  LAW  OF  LARGE  NUMBERS                       57
                                Figure 8.  Shannon entropy as a function of и
                  Let us see where we are.  For each fixed e  >  0 we have proved the following 
             statement:
                  Lemma.  The fraction  of strings  of length n  where frequency  of ones  differs 
             from 1/2 at least by e (among all strings of length n)  does not exceed some Sn  that 
             decreases exponentially as n increases.
                  This lemma (without any specific claims for the fast convergence Sn  —>  0)  is 
             called the Law of Large Numbers.  To prove the Strong Law of Large Numbers we 
             need to know that the series ]T)n Sn is convergent.
                  We need to prove that the set A\/2 of all sequences that have limit frequency 
             of ones  equal to  1/2  has  measure  1.  In other words,  we need to prove that  the 
             complement of this set (we denote this complement by B) is a null set.
                  According to the definition of limit, the set В is the union (over all e > 0) of 
             the sets B£.  Here B£ is the set of all sequences such that frequency of ones in their 
             prefixes exceeds 1/2 + e (or is less than 1/2 — e) infinitely many times.
                  Evidently, we can consider only a countable set of different e (e.g., only rational 
             values), and the countable union of null sets is a null set.  Therefore it remains to 
             prove that the set B£ is a null set for each e.
                  The set B£ consists of the sequences that have arbitrarily long “bad”  prefixes. 
             Here a bad prefix is a string where the frequency of ones differs from 1/2 by more 
             than  e.  Therefore,  for  each  N  the  set  B£  is  covered  by  the  family  of intervals 
             Qx where x ranges over all bad strings of length at least N.  The total (uniform) 
             measure of all these intervals does not exceed
                                            Sn + <5jv+i + Sn+2 + • • •  »
             and this sum can be made small since the series ]TA Si is convergent.
                  (Probability theorists call this argument the Borel-Cantelli lemma.  In its gen­
             eral form this lemma says that if the sum of measures of some sets Ao,A\,...  is 
             finite, then the set of all points that belong to infinitely many Ai is a null set.)    □
                  One can get a bound for the number of bad strings of length n without Stirling’s 
             approximation.  We do it separately for bad strings that have too many and too few 
             ones.  For example, let us consider the set of all  “bad”  strings that have frequency 
             of ones greater than 1/2 + e.  To get a bound for the cardinality of this set, consider 
             two distributions  (measures)  on the set of all strings of length n.  The first  one,
