                                        5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
            184
                Theorem 124.  Let P be a computable measure on Q.  There exists a constant 
            c  such  that,  for  every  string x  and for every string y  that has x  as  a prefix,  the 
            inequality
                                      dp(y) ^ dP(x) -  2 log dp (x) -  c
            holds.
                Informally speaking,  every continuation  of a string with high deficiency has 
            (almost  as)  high deficiency;  or a prefix of a string that  has small deficiency,  has 
            (almost as) small deficiency.  So the deficiency function is almost monotonie.
                Proof.  For each к consider the enumerable set of all finite sequences that have 
            deficiency greater than k.  All the infinite continuations of these sequences form an 
            open set Sfc, and the P-measure of this set does not exceed 2~k.  Now consider the 
            measure Pk on fl that is zero outside Sk and is equal to 2kP inside Sk■  That means 
            that  for every set  U the value Pk(U)  is defined as 2kP(U П Sk).  Actually,  Pk  is 
            not a measure according to our definition, since Pk(Ll) is not equal to 1.  However, 
            Pk can be considered as a lower semicomputable semimeasure if we change it a bit 
            and let Pk(Ll) = 1  (this means that the difference between 1 and the former value 
            of Pk(Ll) is assigned to the empty string).
                Now consider the sum
                                                   к
            It is a lower semicomputable semimeasure (the factor 2 in the denominator is used 
            to  make  the  sum  ]T l/(2A;2)  less  than  1);  again,  we  need  to  increase  5  so  that 
            S(Q) = 1.  Then we have
                               -  logS(:r) < — logP(x) — к + 2 log к + 0 (1)
            for every string x that has a prefix with deficiency greater than k.  Since 5 does 
            not exceed the continuous a priori probability (up to an O(l)-factor), we get the 
            desired inequality.
                Here we assume that the deficiency of x is finite, i.e.,  P(flx) Ф 0;  if P(flx) = 
            0,  then  P(Lly)  =  0  for  any  у  that  has  prefix  x,  and  the  deficiency  of у  is  also 
            infinite.                                                                        □
                Let us return now to the proof of Theorem 123.  We have a sequence of strings 
            (a  subsequence  of  Ц })  that  converges  to  some  lj  €  ft.  All  Wi  have  small  p- 
            deficiencies.  In this case:
                (1) Any prefix of w is a prefix of some Wi, and all Wi have bounded /U-deficiencies. 
            Therefore,  Theorem  124  guarantees  that  /г-deficiencies  of  all  prefixes  of lj  are 
            bounded.  So the sequence lj  is ML-random with respect to p.
                (2) As we have proved in Theorem 123(a), the sequence f(cj) is infinite.
                (3)  The sequence f(cj) cannot have a prefix that is not a prefix of r.  Indeed, 
            in this case lj  would have a prefix и  whose image is incompatible with r ;  then the 
            string и  is a prefix of almost all strings in the subsequence that converges to lj,  but 
            images of Wi have arbitrarily long common prefixes with r .
                This contradiction finishes the proof of Theoreml23(b).                      □
                This  proof of Theorem  123  illustrates  the  use  of the  randomness  deficiency 
            notion.  One can also give a more direct proof (suggested by Muchnik in the 1980s):
