                           10.9.  ONE  MORE  COMBINATORIAL INTERPRETATION             333
                Let us consider arbitrary (positive or negative) coefficients Л/ and the following 
            combinatorial statement:
                    For some constant d, for every tuple of finite set X\,..., Xn and 
                    for every A c X\ x • • • x Xn, one can represent A as a union of 
                    at most (log |A|)d sets, and for each of these sets the inequality
                                        Y[m{I)Xj < (log|A|)d
                    is  true for the projections of the set.  (The sets may have non­
                    empty intersections.)
               Theorem 214.  Consider a tuple of coefficients Aj.  The combinatorial state­
            ment above is true for these A/  if and only if
                                       ^A,C(x,)<0(logJV)
           for every N and for all strings x\,..., xn of complexity at most N.
               Proof.  Assume first that the combinatorial statement is true, and let us prove 
            the inequality for complexities.  Consider arbitrary strings x* of complexity at most 
            N.  Using the typization trick, we find a set A = A(x 1}..., xn) of similar objects; 
            its log-size log |A| is a polynomial in N.
               We apply  the  assumption  to  A  and  conclude  that  it  can  be  represented  as 
            a  union  of  a  polynomial  (in  log|A|,  therefore,  also  in  N)  number  of sets  with 
            required  properties  (inequality  for  the  sizes  of the  projections).  Let  В  be  the 
            biggest of these sets.  The set В is a polynomial fraction of A, and A is c-uniform 
           for a polynomially large c; therefore, В itself is c-uniform for some larger (but still 
           polynomially large) value of c.  The log-sizes of A- and ^-projections differ at most 
           by  O(logiV).  Therefore,  the inequality  for  В  implies  the  same inequality  for  A 
            (with 0 (log iV)-precision); we know that in this case the inequality for complexities 
           of Xi holds.
               To prove the reverse implication, we need the following lemma.
               Lemma.  Every set A c X\  x • • ■ x Xn can be represented as a union of poly­
            nomially (in N = log |A|)  many parts where each part is a c-uniform set for some 
           polynomially (in N) large value of c.  (The parts do not need to be disjoint.)
               Note that this lemma mentions neither Kolmogorov complexity nor inequalities. 
           Still it implies the result we want.  Indeed, the inequality for complexities is also true 
           for Shannon entropies of an arbitrary tuple of random variables.  In particular, this 
           inequality is true for a random variable uniformly distributed in one of the parts. 
           Since the parts are uniform, for each of them the entropy of each projection of this 
           variable is equal to the log-size of this projection of the set (with O(logc) = O(logn) 
           precision), so we get the desired inequality for the sizes of the projections.
               It  remains  to  prove  the  lemma.  There  are  several  proofs;  interestingly,  the 
           simplest proof uses Kolmogorov complexity and proceeds as follows.  Without loss 
           of generality we may assume that the elements (xi,..., xn) € A are tuples of binary 
           strings.  For each x € A consider the set of all  (yi,..., yn)  G A whose complexity 
           vector  (the list  of all  conditional  complexities)  relative  to  A  (i.e.,  A  is  added  as 
           a condition to all the complexities) is bounded coordinate-wise by the complexity 
           vector for x (also with A as a condition).
               Note the following two changes:  (1) before we considered all tuples y, while now 
           we consider only the elements of A;  (2) now we add A as a condition everywhere.
