                                      5.  M ONOTONE  COMPLEXITY
            138
                When this definition is given, the arguments above prove the following state­
            ment.
                Composition lemma.  Assume that for some tree T\  and for every unavailable 
            set A,  Client can win the game with parameters £1, Si, ot\,ß\, k\.  Assume also that 
            for some  tree T\  and for  every  unavailable  set  she  can  also  win  the  game  with 
            parameters E2,&2 ,a2,02,^2.  Finally,  let us  assume  that E\  — Ö2  and k\  = ^2  (we 
            denote this value by к).  Then for the tree T that consists of the root with two sons 
            having subtrees T\  and T2  and for every unavailable set,  Client can win the game 
            with parameters e2, <5i, Qu + »2, ß\ + 0 2 , к.
                The composition game starts with some set A, the space unavailable to Server 
            during the game.  This set  is used without changes in the first  of two composed 
            games; for the second game we add to this set the area grayed during the first game. 
            It is easy to see then that the newly grayed areas in both games do not intersect.
                In fact, in the sequel we do not use exactly the statement of the lemma, but use 
            the same idea in a slightly different situation:  the subtrees where games are played 
            are not fixed in advance but are chosen during the game (the next subtree depends 
            on the game on the previous one).  Also we combine many strategies, not just two. 
            Because of this, we get a huge gap between the values of e and <5 in the combined 
            game:  <5 for each game is equal to e in the preceding one and significantly smaller 
            than £ in the current game.
                This is not enough to finish the proof:  the amplification factor for the combined 
            game is the same as for each game in the combination, so we need some other trick 
            to  increase amplification.  Before giving an example of amplification increase,  let 
            us  make  a simple technical  remark about  the game  definition.  We may assume 
            without loss of generality that the root request  is at  least ß/k at the end of the 
            game.  Indeed,  if it  turns out  to  be  less  (due to  some  unexpected luck),  we just 
            formally  increase  it  at  the  end  on  the  game,  and  the  winning  condition  is  still 
            satisfied.  We call this trick final adjustment in the sequel.
                Example 3.  Let us show how Client can achieve amplification factor 2.  The 
            idea is to follow the same scheme as in Example 2, but use (instead of direct ej2- 
            requests for grandsons) the recursive calls of the strategy that gives amplification 
            3/2 (from the same Example 2).
                Let us recall what was achieved there.  For a given a and for arbitrarily small 
            £  (such that m  = a je is  an integer),  Client  has  a strategy on  a tree of height  2 
            that allows her (for 5 — e/2 and for an arbitrary unavailable3 set A) to get at least 
            a newly grayed space with a root request  at most a  and an amplification factor 
            at  least 3/2.  The tree has m sons of the root, and each has two sons.  Note that 
            m should be an integer, but this is not a problem,  as we will use the strategy of 
            Example 2 only when a is a multiple of e.
               To compose strategies of this type, each next strategy should have an £-parame- 
            ter twice as big as the preceding one.  It is important that we can use the same value 
           of a in all the games;  the construction of Example 2 makes the choices of a and
               3In  Example 2  we did not  consider the unavailable space,  but  the same strategy works in 
           this  case:  we say that  a grandson  of the root  has  a reserve  if the e/2-interval  allocated  to this 
           grandson can be extended to the e-interval in place (the other half of the e-interval is not allocated 
           to the other grandson and does not intersect the unavailable space).  We use here that 5 = e/2: 
           the newly grayed area is disjoint with unavailable space because of this.
