                                     9.11.  PARTIAL  SELECTION  RULES                    287
                The same is true for a-supergales instead of a-gales (with the same proof).
                This result provides an alternative proof of Theorem 120.  Indeed, a-supergales 
            are semimeasures multiplied by 2al^x\   So there exists a maximal lower semicom- 
            putable Q-gale that corresponds to a maximal lower semicomputable semimeasure 
            (=continuous a priori probability).  In the last result we can therefore consider only 
            this Q'-supergale,  and the effective dimension of {w}  is equal to the infimum of a 
            such that a{ujQbJi • • -tdn_i)2an  is  an unbounded function of n.  The logarithm of 
            this expression is an — К A     • • • con-i), so the infimum of those a is
                                        limtof        - 1*.—‘>,
                                                      n
            (In Theorem 120 we used plain complexity instead of a priori complexity, but the 
            difference is O(logn) while we have n in the denominator.)
                                    9.11.  Partial selection rules
                Returning to the selection rules, note that we required the selection rule to be 
            total  (the selection always says, in finite time, whether to select the next term or 
            not,  for  all  possible sequences).  But this condition can be relaxed.  Of course,  if 
            the rule is undefined on some prefix of the given sequence, then it does not select a 
            subsequence.  But the rule may hang in some other situations (that do not happen 
            for our sequence).
                Let us define this broader class of rules formally.  Let r be a computable par­
            tial  function that  maps  (some)  bit strings to  {0,1}.  To decide whether the term 
            ujn  should be selected  (while applying the rule to some sequence lo)  we compute 
            r(cjо • • • tdn_i).  The value 1 means that we select cjn, the value 0 means that we do 
            not select cju;  if the value is undefined,  the selection process hangs,  and we get a 
            finite sequence.  This selection rule is denoted by Sr.  (It is equivalent to the rule Sr 
            where R is the set of all x such that r is defined on all prefixes of x and r(x) = 1. 
            Note that this R is not always decidable for computable partial functions /.)
                This  class  of selection  rules  was  considered  by  R.  Daley  [46];  we  call  them 
            Church-Daley  admissible  selection  rules.  The sequence  is  called  Mises-Church- 
            Daley random if every Church-Daley admissible rule selects a balanced (or finite) 
            sequence.1
                273  Prove that a Church-Daley admissible selection rule applied to a Mises-
            Church-Daley random sequence gives a Mises-Church-Daley random sequence.
                This extension of the class of selection rules makes the class of random sequences 
            smaller, which follows from Theorem 173 (p. 270) and the following result proven 
            by W. Merkle [120]:
                Theorem 188.  There is no Mises-Church-Daley random sequence oj such that 
                                       C{u)Q • • -wn_i) = O(logn).
                P r o o f.  Assume that
                                        C(u)Q • • -(jJn-i) < clogn
                1W. Merkle called them the “Mises-Wald-Church stochastic sequence” in [120], though the 
            historical  reasons  for this  name are unclear.  Church never  considered  partial computable rules, 
            while Mises and Wald did not consider computability at all, so the difference between partial and 
            total rules was not essential for them.
