                               CHAPTER 4
             A priori probability and prefix complexity
                4.1.  Randomized algorithms and semimeasures on N
           In this section we consider algorithms  (=programs,  machines)  equipped with 
        a random number generator.  That is, algorithms may perform instructions of the 
        following form:
                               b := random.
        This  instruction  assigns  to  the  variable  (memory  cell)  b  a random  bit  (0  or  1), 
        both values are assigned with equal probabilities (and independently of all previous 
        random bits).  To perform this instruction we toss a fair coin and write its outcome 
        (heads/tails as 0/1) in the memory cell b.  Algorithms including such instructions 
        are called randomized or probabilistic.
           The result (output) produced by a randomized algorithm depends not only on 
        its input but also on the result of the coin tossing.  That is, for every fixed input, 
        the output of a randomized algorithm is a random variable.
           Speaking formally, the probability that a randomized algorithm A outputs x is 
        defined as follows.  Consider the uniform Bernoulli distribution on the space ft of 
        all infinite 0-1  sequences.  The measure of the set ftu of all infinite extensions of a 
        finite string и is equal to 2~l^uK
           Let x be an input for a randomized algorithm A, and let из e ft be an infinite 
        sequence of zeros and ones.  We denote by A(x,uj)  the output of A on input x if 
        random bits used by the algorithm are taken from the sequence uj.  More specifically, 
        each call of a random generator returns the next bit of uj.  If the algorithm A does 
        not halt  (for given x and uj), then the value A(x,uj) is undefined.
           Let y be a possible output of A.  Consider the set {uj \ A(x,uj) — y}.  This set is 
        the union of intervals ftz over all outcomes 2 of coin tossing that guarantee that A 
        outputs y having x as input.  The probability that A on input x outputs y is equal 
        to the measure of this set.
           In this section, we consider machines without input whose outputs are natural 
        numbers.  Here is an example of such machine.  It tosses a coin until 1 appears and 
        outputs the number of zeros preceding the first  1.  The probability pi of the event 
        “the output is i"  is equal to 2~(г+1\   Indeed, the algorithm outputs i if and only 
        if the first i random bits are zeros and the (i + l)-th bit is  1.  This happens with 
        probability 2~^l+1\
           The sum   is  equal to  1  in  this  example.  Indeed,  the algorithm does not 
        halt if and only if all random bits are zeros and this happens with zero probability. 
        But it is also possible that some other algorithm of the type considered does not 
        terminate with some positive probability.
           We assign to every probabilistic machine (that has no input and produces nat­
        ural numbers; after some number is produced, the machine terminates) a sequence
                                   75
