              120                              5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
                   This theorem can be interpreted in the following way.  Assume that we need 
              a generator of random reals  (^sequences of zeros and ones)  whose output has a 
              prescribed  distribution p  (this  means  that  the  probability  of getting  an  output 
              that  starts  with  x  is  equal  to p(x)).  Then  Theorems  76  and  77 guarantee  that 
              if p is  a computable distribution, then such a generator can be implemented as a 
              randomized algorithm that uses the internal source of random bits that has uniform 
              distribution.
                   The construction used  in  the  proof of Theorem  76  can  be  applied  to  every 
              lower semicomputable continuous semimeasure;  in the special case when we deal 
              with computable measures, there is a much simpler approach.  Let us divide the 
              interval [0,1] into two parts of lengths p(0) and p( 1).  The first part is then divided 
              again into parts of length p(00) and p(01), the second one is divided into parts of 
              length p(10) and p(ll), and so on.  In this way for each string 2 we get an interval 
              7Tz  inside [0, 1], and the intervals ttz  for all strings 2  of any given length cover [0,1] 
              without overlaps.
                   Now construct the probabilistic algorithm as follows.  This algorithm uses in­
              dependent tosses of a fair coin to get a sequence a of random bits that has uniform 
              distribution.  This sequence is considered as a binary representation of some real in 
              [0,1];  this real is also denoted by a.  In parallel the probabilistic algorithms looks 
              for  binary  strings  2  such  that  the  real  number  a  lies  strictly  inside  the  interval 
              7Гz  (and this  is  guaranteed by the available information about  a  and the current 
              approximations to the endpoints of 7rz;  these approximations are computed with 
              increasing precision).
                   The  strings  2  discovered  in  this  way  are  compatible  (one  being  a  prefix  of 
              another).  The more bits of a we know,  the longer 2 can be.  These strings are 
              prefixes of some bit sequence that is the output of our randomized algorithm.
                   The algorithm described can output a finite sequence.  This happens if a coin­
              cides with an endpoint of some ttz.  However, there are countably many endpoints, 
              so this event has probability 0.  Note also that the output of the algorithm starts 
              with 2  if and only if a belongs to the (open)  interval ttz,  so  the probabilities are 
              correct.
                   More formally, we have described a transformation T of the input bit sequence 
              a into the output bit sequence ß = T(a) such that the image of uniform measure 
              under T is the measure p.
                   (This trick is well known.  For example, imagine that you have a fair coin and 
              you need to simulate the coin that has probabilities 2/3 and 1/3.  Then you generate 
              a random real uniformly distributed in [0,1] (by fair coin tossing) and compare this 
              real number with threshold 2/3.  To simulate the second coin tossing, you divide 
              both intervals  [0,2/3]  and  [2/3,1]  in the  same proportion  2  :  1.  The  algorithm 
              described earlier does exactly this.)
                   Theorem 76 shows that it is enough to have a physical generator of indepen­
              dent symmetric random bits  (a fair coin)  to emulate arbitrary other computable 
              probability  distribution  and  even  arbitrary  continuous  semimeasure.  In  fact,  a 
              “computably biased”  coin could work as well, as the following problem shows.
                   11211 Show that  in Theorem 75 one can replace uniform distribution by an 
              arbitrary computable distribution and even an arbitrary semimeasure.
                   (Hint:  The composition of two algorithmic transformations is an algorithmic 
              transformation itself.)
