                             4.5.  THE  MAIN  THEOREM  ON  PREFIX  COMPLEXITY              91
            such pair,  then F{x) —  _L.  If x is an infinite sequence,  then F(x)  is determined 
            uniquely as F{x') where x' is a sufficiently long prefix of x.
                It  remains to show that every set A having properties (1) and  (2) is equal to 
            Г F  f°r  certain  F.  For every  finite x  define  F(x)  as  the  natural number n such 
            that  (x,n)  G  A;  such a number is unique due to  (2).  If there is no such n,  then 
            let  F(x)  = _L.  By condition  (1)  we get an increasing function.  For every infinite 
            xeE, let F(x) be equal to F(x') where x' is any prefix of x such that F(x') Ф _L. 
            If there is no such x', then let F(x) = _L.  By property (1) the value of F(x) is well 
            defined.  The constructed function F satisfies both conditions (1) and (2) from the 
            previous theorem and is continuous.  By construction we have Гp = A.           □
                Conditions (1) and (2) mean that the set A is a graph of a prefix-stable function. 
            We thus have a one-to-one correspondence between continuous mappings £ —»■ Nx 
            and prefix-stable functions.
                Call a continuous mapping F: £ —)■ Nx computable if the set Г/г is enumerable. 
            It is easy to verify that F is computable if and only if the restriction of F to those 
            strings x G E for which f{x) Ф _L is computable in the standard sense.  (A partial 
            function from E to N is computable if and only if its graph is enumerable.)  Thus 
            computable continuous functions £ —> Nx  are basically the same as prefix-stable 
            functions.  This gives an extra motivation for the notion of a computable prefix- 
            stable function.
                           4.5.  The main theorem on prefix complexity
                In this section, we prove that all three complexity measures, К (defined using 
            prefix-stable decompressors), K' (defined using prefix-free decompressors), and the 
            negative logarithm of the a priori probability coincide up to an additive constant. 
            To this end we prove that three inequalities
                                — logm(x) < K{x) A K'{x) < — logm(x) 
            are true up to a constant error term.  We start with two easy inequalities. 
                Theorem 55.
                                          K(x) < Kl(x) + 0( 1).
                PROOF.  This  inequality  would  be  evident  if every  prefix-free  function  were 
            prefix stable.  This is not the case:  a prefix-free function D is undefined on all the 
            extensions of every string и in the domain of D.  On the other hand, a prefix-stable 
            function D is defined on all the extensions v of every string и in the domain of D, 
            and D(v) = D(u).
                Therefore we need a (simple) construction.  Let D be a prefix-free decompressor. 
            Define another decompressor D' as follows:  D'{y) = x if and only if D(y') — x for 
            some prefix y' of y.  As D is prefix free, such y' is unique, thus D' is well defined. 
            To compute D'(y), we just apply D in parallel to all the prefixes y1 of у until we 
            find a prefix y' such that D{y') is defined.
                By construction the function D' is prefix stable and extends D.  Therefore the 
            complexity of each string with respect to D'  does not exceed its complexity with 
            respect to D.  (In fact, the complexities with respect to D and D' coincide, as the 
            described transformation D h* D' does not affect shortest descriptions.)       □
                We could try to prove the converse inequality in a similar way:  consider the 
            restriction of the given prefix-stable decompressor D to minimal descriptions.  That
