        428              14.  ALGORITHMIC STATISTICS
          This problem explains why we are considering uniform distributions only.  Let 
        us stress that in the definition of Kolmogorov complexity of a finite set of strings 
        we consider the set as a finite object represented by the list of all its elements in the 
        lexicographical order.  An alternative approach is to measure the complexity of a set 
        as the minimal length of a program enumerating the set.  With this approach the 
        definition of stochastic strings becomes trivial:  all strings  are stochastic.  Indeed 
        for  every  string  x  of complexity  к  one  can  consider  the  set  Sk  of all  strings  of 
        complexity at most  к as an explanation for x.  It has 0(2k)  elements and hence 
        the  randomness  deficiency of x  in  Sk  is  negligible.  On  the  other  hand,  we  can 
        enumerate this set given к and hence Sk can be enumerated by a program of length 
        log к + 0(1).  However, intuitively Sk is not a good  “explanation”  for x.
          In  the  case  of general  probability  distributions  (not  only  uniform),  we  also 
        consider a distribution as a finite object represented by the list of all pairs (x, P(x)) 
        for x in the support of P and arranged lexicographically.  This is why we need the 
        support to be finite and the values to be rational.  Alternatively, we could consider 
        infinite supports and uniformly computable values—in that case the explanation 
        would be a program computing the function x i+ P{x).  It is essential that we do 
        not allow lower semicomputable semimeasures represented by programs that lower 
        semicompute them.  If we did, then any string would obtain a perfect explanation— 
        the maximal lower semicomputable semimeasure.
          Historical remark.  The first definition of randomness deficiency was given by 
        Kolmogorov, who used the formula log|A| — C(x).  The formula log|A| — C(x\A) 
        used throughout the book is due to [60]  (note that in [60] the prefix complexity is 
        used instead of the plain one, the difference is 0(log(deficiency))).  Kolmogorov’s 
        randomness deficiency log |A| — C(x) is less than or equal to the randomness defi­
        ciency log I A\ — C(x I A), and they differ by at most C(A).  The two deficiencies may 
        differ  that  much,  e.g.,  for  A —  {x}.  Perhaps Kolmogorov was interested only in 
        sets A with negligible complexity, in which case these two deficiencies are close.  For 
        sets with large complexity the expression log |A| — C(x)  may have large negative 
        value and hardly makes any sense.
                         14.2.  Stochastic objects
          A string x is called (a, /3)-stochastic if there is a finite set A containing x with 
        C(A) ^ a and d(x\A) ^ ß.
          A natural question arises.  Consider all strings x of length n and consider a 
        and ß of order О (log/г) or o(n), making the complexity of explanations for x much 
        smaller than the length of x.  For such a,ß,  are there non-stochastic strings  (i.e., 
        “non-explainable”  objects)?  An affirmative answer to this question is provided by 
        the following theorem.
          Theorem 248.  Assume that 2a + ß < n — O(logn).  Then there is a string of 
        length n that is not (a, ß)-stochastic.
          (The accurate statement is that there is a c such that for all large enough n 
        and  all  a,ß  with  2a + ß  <  n — clogn there  is  a string  of length n  that  is  not 
        (a, /3)-stochastic.)
          PROOF.  Consider the list of all finite sets of complexity at most a.  The Kol­
        mogorov complexity of this list is at most a + O(loga) = a + O(logn)  (see p. 25).
