                                     1.  PLAIN  KOLMOGOROV  COMPLEXITY
             24
                 Consider now any partial computable function d : S -A N in place of D, and let
                             Bd(n) — max{d(x) | l(x) < n and d(x) is defined}.
             The next  theorem shows  that  the  function  В  is  the  largest  function  among  all 
             functions Bd in the following sense:
                 Theorem 12.  For every function d there is a constant c such that
                                              В din) ^ B(n + c)
             for all n.
                 Proof.  For every x of length at most n, the complexity of d(x)  is less than 
             n + c for some constant  c.  Indeed,  the complexity of d(x)  exceeds at  most  by a 
             constant  the complexity of x,  which is less than n + 0(1).  Hence d(x)  does not 
             exceed the largest number of complexity n + c or less, i.e., B(n + c).             □
                 This  (trivial)  observation is useful in the following special case.  Let M be an 
             algorithm, and let X be a set of binary strings.  A halting problem for M restricted 
             to X is the following problem:  given a string x £ X, find out whether M terminates 
             on x or not.
                 A classical result in computability theory states that for some algorithm M the 
             unrestricted halting problem (X = £) for M is undecidable.
                 We are interested now in the case when X is the set of all strings of bounded 
             length.  Fix some algorithm M and consider the running time t(x) of M for some 
             input x.  If M does not halt on x, then t(x)  is undefined.  Thus the domains of t 
             and M coincide.  By definition, Bt(n) is the maximal running time of M on inputs 
             of length at most n.  If we know Bt(n) or any larger number m, we can solve the 
             halting problem for M and every input x of length at most n:  Run M on input x\ 
             if the computation does not terminate after m steps, it never terminates.
                 We have seen that Bt(n) ^ B(n + c) for some constant c (depending on M). 
            Therefore, the knowledge of B (n + c) or any greater number is enough to solve the 
            halting problem of M on inputs of length at most n.  In other words, the following 
            holds:
                 Theorem  13.  For  every  algorithm  M  there  is  a  constant  c  and  another 
             algorithm  A  having  the following  property.  For  every n  and for  every  number 
            t  >  B(n + c),  the  algorithm A,  given n  and t,  produces  the  list  of all strings x 
             of length at most n such that M halts on input x.
                 This theorem says that the halting problem for inputs of length at most n is 
             reducible to the problem of finding a number greater than B(n + c).
                 If M is the optimal decompressor D, then the converse is also true:  given n 
            and the list  of all strings x of length at most n in the domain of D, we can find
             в {n).
                 Continuing this argument, we can prove the following result:
                 Theorem  14.  Let  BB (n)  denote  the  maximal  running  time  of the  optimal 
             decompressor D on strings of length at most n (in the domain of D).  Then
                               BB (n) < B(n + c)     and  В (n) < BB (n + c) 
            for some c and all n.
