                            9.7.  LOWER SEMICOMPUTABLE MARTINGALES              277
           Moving in this direction, one can suggest the following market (or game) approach 
           to the notion of randomness and say that
                   the  randomness  of a bit sequence is not the property of the se­
                   quence but the type of insurance provided for this sequence.
              It sounds a bit strange at first, but it still makes sense.  Imagine a shop where we 
           can pay $1 in exchange for a bit sequence written on a scratch card.. The sequence 
           is guaranteed to be random:  The seller guarantees that our martingale (its copy is 
           given to the seller in a sealed envelope) will not win much on that sequence.  More 
           precisely, we discover the bits on the card one by one (from left to right),  and at 
           every moment we may get back the value of martingale on the currently discovered 
           bits.
              In other words, we come to the shop with $1  and a description of some mar­
           tingale in a sealed envelope.  Giving the money and the envelope to the seller, we 
           get  in exchange the scratch card with an  (infinite)  bit sequence.  Then we reveal 
           the bits on the card sequentially, and at every moment  (at our discretion) we can 
           get m dollars as a refund, where m is the value of our martingale on the sequence 
           of bits that we have read.  (After that the seller has no other obligations.)
              Note  that  it  is  important  that  we  do  not  see  the  next  bits.  Otherwise  we 
           could cheat—if the next bits decrease the martingale, we demand the refund now, 
           otherwise we wait for a better refund.
              Buying the random bits from such a seller, we may hedge the risks of getting a 
           “bad” sequence of random bits.  If we have a randomized algorithm that works fast 
           for most values of random bits and we were unlucky and bought a bit sequence that 
           makes it work long, then we can at least get some refund according the martingale 
           (it  was  carefully  chosen when we made the purchase—this martingale should be 
           large on rare sequences that make the algorithm work long).  So we need to deposit 
           different martingales depending on the future use of the sequence.  For example, if 
           we use the sequence in the probabilistic algorithm that generates large primes (i.e., 
           produces a large prime number with high probability),  the martingale should be 
           large on random sequences that lead to composite numbers.  Then, if we lose some 
           money because of the nonprimality of the generated number, we at least can get a 
           refund from the randomness provider.
              To  make the  story  more  realistic,  one  should  consider  finite  sequences,  but 
           the scheme remains the same.  Also note that the parties should agree about the 
           measure on bit sequences when making a deal (because the notion of a martingale 
           depends on it).  According to this philosophy,  one may say that the probability 
           distribution does not exist anywhere in the real world, but is a part of the contract. 
           (However,  a wise  seller  would  take  into  account  this  part  of the  contract  when 
           producing the sequence for sale.)
              This  approach  to  probability  theory  is  discussed  thoroughly  in  the  book  of 
           V. Vovk and G. Shafer [172].
                          9.7.  Lower semicomputable martingales
              The results about  martingales proven above have a natural effective version. 
           We already have studied the notion of effective null sets.  Since null sets are related 
           to martingales, one could expect that effectively null sets correspond to some class 
           of martingales.  This is indeed the case.
