                        GENERALIZATION  FOR ARBITRARY COMPUTABLE DISTRIBUTIONS                      481
              for p = 1/2, we get uniform distribution.  Formally,  for the Bernoulli distribution 
             with parameter p we have
             where к is the number of ones in x.
                  The next step is to consider quasi-Bernoulli distributions where trials are still 
             independent,  but  the  probability  of success  may  depend  on  the  number  of the 
             trial:  in the kth trial the outcome 1 appears with probability p(k).  More formally, 
             consider a sequence of reals
                                  P = (pt1)»^2). • • -,p(k),...),   0 < p(k) < 1.
             Then the quasi-Bernoulli distribution with parameter p is defined by the formula
                                                             71
                                                  pifix) — 1 1  q ,
                                                            ;-i
             where r./ = p(i) if ж* = 1 and г* = 1 — p(i) if Xi = 0.  If p = (p,p,... ,p,...), we get 
             Bernoulli distributions as a special case.
                  In this section we show how the definitions of stochasticness, chaoticness, typ­
             icalness, and unpredictability can be extended to the case of arbitrary computable 
             probability distribution p (see the definition below).  Let us tell in advance that for 
             this more general case the same relationships hold:
                                          сад = ты  с и м  c sm , 
                                                   s(aO Ф и м
             (the last inequality is true assuming that all balls have positive measure).
                  Here C(p), T(p), U(/r), S(p) denote (respectively) the classes of chaotic, typ­
             ical,  unpredictable,  and Kolmogorov stochastic sequences with respect to the dis­
             tribution p\  these classes are defined below.  Our old classes now can be written 
             as C = C(?7), T = T(rj), U = U(?7), and S = S(77) for the uniform distribution rj 
             on ST
                  Let us warn the reader that this section is addressed to people who like gen­
             eralizations.  It is a bit more difficult than the previous exposition.  Moreover, our 
             task, that is the search for a natural definition of randomness, is less clear for gen­
             eral distributions.  The intuitive meaning of an individual random sequence as a 
             plausible outcome of some natural physical process like coin tossing becomes less 
             and less clear as we switch from the simple example of fair coin tossing and the 
             uniform distribution to more and more general classes of distributions.
                  Computable measures  (distributions).  One may attempt to call a mea­
             sure on Q computable if there exists an algorithm that for each binary string x 
             computes a measure p(£lx) of the ball Qx.  However, we have to be cautious:  the 
             output of an algorithm may be an integer or rational number (to be more precise, 
             its name or representation as a string over a finite alphabet), and we cannot name 
             all  the  real  numbers  since  we  have  only  countably  many  names.  So  we  require 
             that the algorithm computes not a real number (the measure of the ball) but its 
             approximation.
                  Here is the definition.  A measure p is computable if there exists an algorithm 
             that for any given pair (a binary string x, a positive rational e) computes a rational 
             number that differs from p(flx) at most by e.
