                                                               2.2.   CONDITIONAL  COMPLEXITY                                                            41
                    C(x) — l(q), and we get a description of x that is shorter than C(x)—a contradic­
                    tion.)
                            45 Prove that for every n there exists an n-bit string x such that
                                                                  C(C(x) |x) = logn — 0(1).
                    (This is a maximal possible value, since C(x) ^ n for n-bit string x.)
                           This result  (in a bit weaker form)  was proven long ago by P.  Gâcs  [55].  Re­
                    cently E. Kalinina and B. Bauwens suggested a simple game-theoretic proof of this 
                    statement.  Here  is  a sketch  of their  argument  (see  [6]  for  details).  Consider  a 
                    rectangular game board of width 2n and height n.  Two players, White and Black, 
                    make alternating moves and place pawns of their respective colors into the board 
                    cells.  Unlike chess,  each  cell may  contain  both white and  black pawns  (at  most 
                    one of each color).  At each move a player may place several pawns into different 
                    cells  (or no pawns at all); after a pawn is placed, it cannot be moved or removed. 
                    Also Black can irreversibly mark some cells.  The players should obey the following 
                    restrictions:
                           (a)  each of the players can place at most  2г  pawns at row i  (the bottom row 
                    has number 0, the upper row has number n — 1);
                           (b) Black can mark at most half of the cells in each column.
                           A white pawn is declared killed if its cell is marked or if there is a black pawn 
                    below  it  (in  the  same  column).  The  game  does  not  end  formally  (though  it  is 
                    essentially a finite game); White wins if in the limit there is at least one non-killed 
                    white pawn.
                          White has a winning strategy in this game:  place a pawn in the top row and 
                    wait until it is killed.  If it  is killed  by the black pawn below,  switch to the next 
                    column  (for example,  White can go from left to right starting with the leftmost 
                    column).  If the pawn was killed by marking its cell,  White places another pawn 
                    just  below the first  one,  etc.  (We  may  assume that  Black makes only the move 
                    needed to kill White’s pawn; since only the limit position matters in the game, all 
                    of Black’s other moves can be postponed.)  Recall that Black can mark at most half 
                    of the column, so Black is forced to put some pawn in the column at some point. 
                    It cannot be done in all columns, since the sum of 2г for all rows is less (by 1) than 
                    the width of the table.  Note also that White will not violate restrictions on the 
                    number of pawns in each row, since in all the columns (except the currently active 
                    one) under each white pawn (in row i) there is a black pawn (in some row j < i), 
                    and the sum of 2J  for all j < i is less that  2г  and there is a space for one more 
                    white pawn.
                          After a winning strategy for White is described, consider the following “univer­
                    sal”  strategy for Black:  the cell (x, i) is marked as soon as we find that C(i\x) < 
                    logn — 1;  a black  pawn  in  placed  at  (x,i)  when  a  conditional  description  of x 
                    (given n) of length i is found.  It is easy to check that Black obeys the game rules. 
                    White wins,  and a live white pawn at the cell  (ж,г)  means that C(x\n)  > г  and 
                    C(i\x)  ^  logn — 1.  Since the actions of White  (playing against the computable 
                    strategy of Black) are computable, we conclude that C(x |n) < i + 0(1):  the set of 
                    white pawns in row i is enumerable and it contains at most 2г elements.
                          This  argument  shows  that  C(C(x\n)\x)  ^  logn — 1  (not  exactly  what  we 
                    wanted).  To get the desired result,  we  should change the game and consider in 
                    parallel boards of all sizes.
