        276     9.  FREQUENCY AND GAME APPROACHES TO RANDOMNESS
           (b)  this method can be applied to every null set (by finding a suitable martin­
        gale).
          This interpretation is important for two reasons.  First, from a purely technical 
        viewpoint, we get a tool to prove that some set has measure zero (by constructing 
        a martingale that wins on all its elements).
          To illustrate the point, let us present in this style the proof of the Strong Law 
        of Large Numbers.  Let ß = Bp, the Bernoulli distribution with independent trials 
        and success probability p.
          For  a  given  q  > p,  let  us  prove  that  the  Bp-probability  of the  event  “the 
        frequency of ones exceeds  q infinitely many times”  is  zero.  (For  q < p and the 
        event  “the  frequency of ones falls below q infinitely many times”  the arguments 
        are similar.)  To achieve this,  consider £ p-martingale Bq/Bp.  For a sequence z of 
        length n, where the frequency of ones is r  (with nr ones and n(l — r) zeros), the 
        value of this martingale is
                            qnr(l — g)n(1~r) 
                            pnr(l — p)n(1~r) ’ 
        and the logarithm of this value is
              n[(r\ogq + (1 -r)log(l -  q)) - (rlogp + (1 - r) log(l -p))].
        Since q > p, the latter expression is an increasing linear function of r\ the coefficient 
        is log[q/p] + log[(l —p)/{ 1 — g)] and both terms are positive.  So for r > q (the case 
        we are interested in), we can only decrease this expression replacing r by q, so the 
        logarithm of the martingale value is
              n[{qlogg + (i -  g) bg(i -  g)) -  (giogp + (i -  g) iog(i -p))].
        The Gibbs inequality (p. 215) guarantees that the expression in the square brackets, 
        the  Kullback-Leibler  distance  between  the  distribution  (g, 1  — g),  (p, 1  — p),  is 
        positive.  So the martingale is unbounded on the sequences where frequency exceeds 
        q infinitely often.
          This proof of the SLLN does not follow completely the scheme outlined above: 
        We consider not one martingale but a family of martingales (one for each g).  Each 
        of the martingales is used to prove that some set has measure zero,  and then we 
        observe that the countable union of null sets is a null set.
          Instead, we could take a countable family of g,-  (say,  all rational g), construct 
        a martingale for each g7, and then mix all these martingales with positive weights. 
        If some of the martingales are infinite, the mix will be infinite, too.
          Essentially  the same proof of the SLLN was discussed in Section 3.2  (Prob­
        lem 67, p. 58), but there we considered finite sequences and did not use the term 
        martingale speaking just about the ratio of two measures.  (Similar arguments will 
        be used later in Section 9.13.)
          The second reason why martingales are important is more philosophical.  What 
        do we do when we prove some theorem using the martingale approach? We consider 
        some property L of binary sequences ( “to be balanced”  for the case of the SLLN) 
        and some martingale m.  Then we prove that for every binary sequence oj at least 
        one of two things happens:
            •  the sequence oj has the property L\
            •  the martingale m wins on oj.
