                              2.  FOUR ALGORITHMIC FACES OF RANDOMNESS
            47C
            such that
                                             Q C
                                    £ vM»)) = £ 2Hx(",i<_L-
                                      n            n
            Evidently, each sequence forms a small set (a singleton), so the intersection of all sets 
            with small complements is empty, and we need to define “reasonable overwhelming 
            majority”  in a more restrictive way.
                This can be done by considering the following effective version of the definition 
            of a small set.
                First, we require the sequence (x(l),x(2),..., x(n),...)  in the definition to be 
            computable.  In other words, some algorithm should compute x{n) given n as input.
                Second,  we require not only the computability of this sequence,  but  uniform 
            computability:  the sequence (x(l), x(2),..., x(n),...) with required properties can 
            be constructed by some algorithm given m.  We need to explain what it means: 
            this  sequence  is  an  infinite  object,  and  algorithms  deal  with  finite  objects  only. 
            We require that there exists some algorithm that, given m, produces an algorithm 
            (=a program) that computes some sequence (x(l), x(2), ..., x(n),...) with required 
            properties.17
                These two changes in the definition of a small set give us a definition of a more 
            restricted notion, that of an effectively small set.18  The complements of effectively 
            small sets could be called effectively large sets.  Now the intersection of all effectively 
            large sets is not empty; moreover, this intersection itself is an effectively large set. 
            This smallest effectively large set is our goal:  we denote it by T and call it the set 
            of all typical sequences.
                Typical sequences are usually called Martin-Löf random sequences, since this 
            definition  was  suggested  (as  a definition of randomness)  in  1966  by  Per  Martin- 
            Löf, an eminent Swedish mathematician, who in 1964 and 1965 studied at Moscow 
            University under the supervision of Kolmogorov.
                As we have said already, the class T of all typical sequences coincides with the 
            class C of all chaotic sequences,
                                                T = C,
            and the elements of this class can be called  chaotic-typical or  typical-chaotic se­
            quences (and the class may be denoted by CT or TC).
                As we have already mentioned,
                                          CT c S,  CT Ф s.
                                    Face four:  Unpredictability
                Any random sequence is unpredictable in the following sense:  if we know the 
            values of some its terms, it does not give us any information about the terms not 
            revealed yet.  So if a Casino prepares a random sequence and then allows a Player 
            to  make bets on the values of the terms she does not  know,  the  Casino  is safe; 
            more precisely, there is no strategy for the Player that allows her to make Casino 
            bankrupt independent of the initial amount of money Casino has.
                17An equivalent definition requires that, given m  and n, an algorithm computes the nth term 
            of a sequence that satisfies the requirements for the given m.
                18In the main part of the book those sets are called effectively null sets.
