          264        9.  FREQUENCY AND  GAME APPROACHES TO RANDOMNESS
              253      Fix some selection rule R.  Show that if ш has a Bernoulli distribution 
          (independent trials with the same probability p, not necessarily equal to 1/2), then 
          Sr(co) has the same distribution (assuming that it is infinite with probability 1).
             So the definition of Kollektiv gives a non-empty notion (Kollektivs exist) if we 
          restrict  ourselves to some countable family of sets R and consider corresponding 
          selection rules.  But which countable family should we choose?
                             9.3.  Mises-Church randomness
             The ideas of von Mises appeared before the notion of algorithm (or computabil­
          ity)  was  formalized.  As  soon  as the  notion of computable function  appeared,  it 
          became possible to use it in the Mises’ scheme.  This was done by A. Church [44], 
          so selection rules Sr that correspond to decidable (=computable, recursive) sets R 
          are called  Church-admissible in the sequel.  The corresponding class of sequences, 
          i.e., sequences ш such that Sr(cj) is finite or balanced for every Church-admissible 
          rule, are called Mises-Church random, or  Church stochastic.
             We know already that they exist and form a set of full measure.  Moreover, the 
          following stronger statement is true:
             Theorem 167.  Every ML-random sequence (with respect to the uniform mea­
          sure)  is Mises-Church random.
             Proof.  The effective version of the SLLN  (Theorem 32, p.  65;  see also Sec­
          tion 8.4)  guarantees that the set  U of non-balanced sequences  (that do not have 
          the limiting frequency or have it different from 1/2) is an effectively null set.
             Let  us  show  that  for  a  Church-admissible  selection rule  Sr  the  preimage  of 
          an effectively null set is an effectively null set.  Indeed,  if R is decidable, the con­
          struction used in the proof of Theorem 166 becomes effective  (one can effectively 
          enumerate all the intervals that form a preimage of a given interval).  So an ML- 
          random sequence does not belong to this preimage, i.e.,  its image is balanced (or 
          finite).                                                          □
             What else  can  we  prove  about  Mises-Church  random  sequences,  except  for 
          the SLLN (that is satisfied by definition)?  For example,  we can prove that each 
          substring (not only each symbol) appears with a correct frequency:
             Theorem  168.  Let oj  be  a  Mises-Church  random sequence,  and  let  U  be  a 
          binary  string.  Consider  the  positions  к  where  U  appears  in и  (this  means  that 
          UqU\ • • • = cjkCJk+i • • • )•  The fraction of those i  among the first N positions tends 
          to 1/2^)  as N —» oo.
             Proof.  We  already  know that  zeros  appear  in  (approximately)  half of the 
          positions.  Consider now the rule  “select terms that go just after zeros”.  Mises- 
          Church randomness guarantees that the selected subsequence contains  (approxi­
          mately) equal numbers of zeros and ones.  This means that the groups 00 and 01 
          have approximately the same frequency, so the limit frequency of each group is 1/4. 
          The same is true for 10 and 11.  Now consider the rule “select terms that follow 00” 
          (or  “select terms that follow 01”), etc.                         □
              254     Consider a Mises-Church random sequence and split it into fc-bit blocks 
          (for some k).  Show that in the resulting sequence (in a 2fc-letter alphabet) each of 
          2k blocks appears with limit frequency l/2fc.
