                              3.4.  PROPERTIES  OF  MARTIN-LOF  RANDOMNESS                 67
                More general selection rules are considered in Chapter 9 (p. 261) where the fre­
            quency approach to the notion of randomness (von Mises’ approach) is considered.
                 83 Let oj be an ML-random sequence with respect to the uniform measure.
            Let us split oj into two-bit blocks and then replace blocks 00 by zeros and blocks 01, 
            10 and 11 by ones.  Prove that the resulting sequence is ML-random with respect 
            to Bernoulli measure with parameters 1/4,3/4.
                (Hint:  We described a transformation F : Q —> Q.  The preimage of any open set 
            U is open, and the uniform measure of that preimage equals the (1/4,3/4)-measure 
            of the set U.)
                 84 (Continued)  Prove that every ML-random sequence with respect to the 
            non-uniform Bernoulli  (1/4,3/4)-measure can be obtained in this way from a se­
            quence that is ML-random with respect to the uniform measure.
                (Hint:  For any open set В С S7, consider the set B' of all sequences ш such that 
            ir-1({w}) С В (the set of sequences that do not have a preimage outside £, i.e., 
            the complement to the image of the complement of В).  The image of a compact set 
            is a compact set; therefore, B' is open.  Show that if В is a union of an enumerable 
            family of intervals,  then B'  is also a union of enumerable family of intervals,  and 
            the Bernoulli measure of B' does not exceed the uniform measure of B.  See also 
            the proof of a more general statement (Theorem 123, p.  181).)
                What can be said about the complexity of an ML-random sequence (with re­
            spect to the uniform measure) from the viewpoint of recursion theory?  We know 
            already that an ML-random sequence is not computable.  It also cannot be a char­
            acteristic function of an enumerable (recursively enumerable, computably enumer­
            able) set.
                Theorem 36.  Let A  be  an enumerable set of natural numbers.  Consider its 
            characteristic sequence aQaya^ • • •  (a;  — 0 for i  ф  A  and a;  —  1 for i  € A).  This 
            sequence is not ML-random.
                Proof.  Let к be an arbitrary natural number.  Let us enumerate the set A 
            and see  what  happens  with  к  first  bits  of its  characteristic  sequences.  As  (the 
            current version of) A increases, we get more and more ones in this /с-bit prefix.  In 
            this way we get at most к + 1 candidates; at some point we come to a final (true) 
            one, but we never know that this happened already.  Anyway, the set of candidates 
            is  enumerable  and  the  number  of candidates  does not  exceed  к + 1  (since  k-bit 
            prefix can have 0 ■■■ к ones).  The total measure of these intervals is (k + l)/2fc and 
            therefore can be made arbitrarily small.  (Note that the definition of the effectively 
            null set allows us to enumerate the intervals that form a covering, and this is exactly 
            what we can do in our case.)                                                  □
                A natural question  arises:  In what  sense can one explicitly provide  an ML- 
            random sequence?  As we have seen, neither computable sequences nor character­
            istic sequences of enumerable sets are random.  If you are familiar with the basics 
            of the recursion theory (see, e.g.,  [184]), you may appreciate the following result: 
            There exists an ML-random sequence that belongs to the class Е2ПП2 of the arith­
            metic hierarchy (this class can be also described as the class of all O'-computable 
            sequences).
                Theorem 37.  There exists a O'-computable sequence that is ML-random with 
            respect to the uniform measure.
