              478                  2.  FOUR  ALGORITHMIC  FACES  OF  RANDOMNESS
                   First, moves may be valid or invalid, and the game continues only if the move 
              is valid.  By definition, a valid move should satisfy two requirements:
                     1)  the number of the bit on which bet is made is valid:  this means that this 
                        bit was not used earlier, i.e., n(k) does not appear among n(l),, n(k —
                        i);
                     2)  the bet itself is valid:  its size is less than the current capital, i.e., v(k) < 
                        V{k - 1).
                  The game stops when Player makes an incorrect move.  In this case she keeps 
              the current capital forever, and cannot win.
                  It  is  also  possible that  Player  refrains  from  making any move  (she may even 
              refrain from making the first move); in this case she also keeps the current capital 
              forever  and  cannot  win.  However,  we  do  not  say  in  this  case  that  the  game  is 
              stopped.  Player  can  think  for  an  arbitrarily  long  time  before  making  her  next 
              move; the time for thinking is not limited, so it is possible that she thinks forever, 
              i.e.,  never makes any move.  While thinking, the capital remains unchanged, so in 
              this case the capital remains unchanged forever.  We do not say, however, that the 
              game is stopped, since Player never explicitly declares that she will not make any 
              move.  So  three scenarios  are possible:  (1)  Player  makes  infinitely  many  moves; 
              (2)  Player attempts to make an invalid move and the game is stopped;  (3) Player 
              at some point starts thinking but never makes a move.
                  Of course, this is only an illustration, and the formal definition goes as follows. 
              By definition, Player wins against the sequence a if
                                                   sup V(k) = +00, 
                                                    к
              i.e.,
                                                  VW 3k V{k) > W.
              This means that Player can cause the bankruptcy of Casino independently of its 
              initial capital.  This is possible only if game is infinite, that is, at each turn Player 
              makes a valid move.
                  The game is described now,  and we define the notion of strategy.  A strategy 
              is a rule that tells Player what she should do, i.e., prescribes the next move based 
              on the history of the game.  The strategy is not  required to be total,  its output 
              may be undefined because Player makes no move:  the strategy produces an output 
              exactly in the cases when Player makes some move.  The input to the strategy is 
              the history of the game, that is, the sequence of all the moves made so far and the 
              values of the bits revealed so far.  (One could add to the history the information 
              about the capital at every moment, but this is redundant, since this information 
              can be easily computed.)
                  Here is the history before the kth move can be represented as a table:
                                             n(l)    n(2)         n(k — 1)
                                             г(1)    i( 2)        i(k -  1)
                                             v{l)    v(2)         v(k — 1)
                                            ®n( 1)  O'n(2)         an(k-1)
              (for к = 1 the table is empty).
                  A strategy therefore is a function that maps every table of this kind to a move 
              (n, i, v), or it may be undefined (on some tables).  Here “table of this kind” means an
