                                         HISTORY  AND  BIBLIOGRAPHY                              487
              [7]  V. V ’yiigin,  “Algorithmic entropy (complexity) of finite objects and its application to defining 
                 randomness and amount of information,”  Selecta M athematica (formerly Sovietica), v. 13(4), 
                 1994, p.  357-389.
              [S]  M. Li, P. Vitânyi. An Introduction to Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications., Springer- 
                 Verlag,  1993, xx+546 pp., 38 illustrations; third ed., 2008, xxiii+790 pp., 50 illustrations.
                 Of course, this list is not complete in any sense.  However, in these publications 
             (especially in [5]) one can find further references to get a more complete picture.  In 
              2 ],  in Section 2.6  (Applications to probability theory) different definitions of ran­
             [
             dom sequence are given (pp. 166-178).  Note that the terminology in [2] is different; 
             what we call chaotic sequences is called there Kolmogorov random sequences, what 
             we  call  typical  sequences  is  called  there  Martin-Löf  random  sequences;  Church 
             stochastic  sequences  are  called  there  Mises-Church  random sequences,  and  Kol­
             mogorov stochastic sequences are called there Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random 
             sequences,  and in  [5]  they are called Kolmogorov-Loveland stochastic sequences. 
             D. Loveland independently discovered this class later, in 1966, while Kolmogorov’s 
             paper appeared in 1963.  The unpredictable sequences  (as defined by us)  do not 
             appear in [2 ] since they were introduced only later (in 1998, see [5]).
                 An example of a Church stochastic sequence that becomes not Church stochas­
             tic  after a computable permutation of its terms was published by D. Loveland in 
             1966.  That  example  is  important  not  only  because it  shows  a flaw  in  Church’s 
             definition, but also because it stresses an important property of randomness that is 
             intuitively obvious but was not taken into account earlier:  conservation after every 
             computable permutation.
                 Description complexity theory, i.e., the theory of complexity of objects, should 
             not be mixed with computational complexity theory, i.e., the theory of complexity 
             of computations.  Description  complexity theory  forms  the  basis  for  algorithmic 
             information theory.  Both theories,  closely related,  were founded  by Kolmogorov 
             in  his  seminar talks  at  Lomonosov  Moscow  State University in the beginning of 
             the 1960s; Kolmogorov’s main goal was to create a new foundation for information 
             theory based on the idea that the more complex an object is,  the greater is the 
             information carried by that object.  That new foundation should avoid the notion 
             of probability replacing it by the notion of algorithm,  and also should be applied 
             to  the definition of an individual random object.  In his  1969 paper  (the English 
             version was published in 1968) Kolmogorov wrote:
                        (1)  Basic information theory concepts must and can be founded 
                            without recourse to probability theory, and in such a man­
                            ner that  “entropy”  and  “mutual information”  concepts are 
                            applicable to individual values.
                       (2)  Thus introduced, information theory concepts can form the 
                            basis  of the  term  random,  which  naturally  suggests  that 
                            randomness is the absence of regularities.23
                 The idea of measuring the complexity of an object by the length of its short­
             est description was proposed by Kolmogorov in his paper of 1965;24  a year earlier 
             similar ideas were published in the U.S. by Ray Solomonoff (Kolmogorov learned
                 23The published English version of this paper says  “random is the absence of periodicity”, 
             but this is evidently a translation error, and we correct the text following the Russian version.
                 24See item [78] in the main list of references.
