                                                 FACE FOUR:  UNPREDICTABILITY                                         479
                arbitrary table with positive integers in the first row, non-negative rational numbers 
                in the third row, and bits in the second and fourth rows.
                     Assume that we are given a strategy and a table that can appear during the 
                game of that strategy against some sequence.  Then the first three rows of that table 
                can be uniquely reconstructed from the last row.  Indeed, we reconstruct the first 
                move (n(l), i(l), г>(1))  applying the strategy to the empty table.  Then  (assuming 
                that the fourth row is known) we know the history of the game before the second 
                move, i.e., the table
                                                                  n(l)
                                                                  i( 1)
                                                                  u(l)
                                                                 ®n( 1) •
                Then we apply the strategy again to find the second move  (n(2), i(2),v{2))  and 
                hence the table
                                                             n(l)     n(2)
                                                             i(l)      H 2)
                                                             u(l)     «(2)
                                                             ®n( 1)   ^n( 2)
                and so on.
                     So,  when defining strategies,  we may assume that only the fourth line of the 
                table is given to the strategy.  This line is a binary string (an element of E).  Given 
                a binary string,  the strategy may have no  output  or provide the next  move,  an 
                element  of N x  {0,1}  x  Q+,  as  an  output.  (Here  Q+  stands  for  the  set  of all 
                non-negative rational numbers.)
                     So we can now give the final definition of a strategy:  it is a partial mapping of 
                type
                                                      E ->• N x {0,1} x <Q>+.
                     We are interested in strategies that are computable, i.e., that can be computed 
                by an algorithm.  Let us specify what that means.  Assume that an algorithm A 
               gets  elements  of a set  X  as  input  and produces  elements  of a set  Y  as  output. 
                Consider the subset  of X  that  consists of all  inputs  for  which  A  provides some 
               output, and the function from this subset of X to Y that maps each input value 
               to the corresponding output value.  We say that A computes that function, and a 
               function is computable if some algorithm computes it.
                     We will consider strategies that are computable in this sense.  (If the algorithm 
               does  not  terminate  for  an  input  history,  then  the  strategy  is  undefined  on  that 
               history, in which case we may imagine that Player is thinking about her move but 
               never comes to any decision.)
                     We say that a sequence a is predictable if there exists a computable strategy 
               that wins against a (i.e., Player wins if she uses this strategy against a).  Otherwise, 
               a is unpredictable.20  The class of all unpredictable sequences is denoted by U.
                     It  is  known  that  every  unpredictable  sequence  is  Kolmogorov  stochastic  (it 
               belongs to the class S) and that every typical-chaotic sequence is unpredictable:
                                                            CT C U C S.
                     20In the main text unpredictable sequences are called  “Kolmogorov-Loveland random”; see 
               the discussion on p. 310.
