                         6.2.  COMPARING  COMPLEXITIES     197
        we choose an optimal function among all functions of this class, and it defines the 
        decision complexity.
           195 Show that the decision complexity of a string x equals (up to 0(1)) the 
        minimal value of C(p) for all programs p (in a given programming language, say, 
        Pascal) that ignore their input and output the string x or some its extension.
           196  Show that if we replace C by К in the preceding problem, we get in a 
        similar way an upper bound for monotone complexity.  Show that this bound is not 
        0 (l)-tight.
           (Hint:  The monotone complexity of all n-bit strings is bounded by n + 0(1). 
        The programs for these strings  (or their extensions)  should be all different,  and 
        there are not enough strings having prefix complexity n + 0 (1).)
                        6.2.  Comparing complexities
           There are four complexities in our table (two options for the space of objects are 
        combined with two options for the space of descriptions).  The following diagram 
        (Figure 17) shows the inequalities between them (up to an 0(l)-additive term):
                                     KM
                                KR
                   Figure 17.  Inequalities between complexities
           Some people would like to avoid references to topological notions like continu­
        ous mappings, though these notions are quite relevant here as the theory of abstract 
        data types shows (Dana Scott lattices and related notions of /о-spaces in the sense 
        of Ershov);  see  [176].  Those readers will appreciate the following simplified con­
        struction [195] that is still enough to define the four complexities in the table.
           Consider the set H = B* of all binary strings and two binary relations:  x = у 
        means that strings x and у are equal;  x x у means that x and у are compatible 
        (one is a prefix of the other one).  Let a and ß be one of these two relations  (so 
        there are four combinations for the pair a,ß).
          A set S C £ x £ is called a-ß-regular if the following condition is true for any 
        strings xi, 12,2/1,2/2:
                     (zi,2/i) € S, (Х2 У2) G S,  X]_ax2  =>  yißy2
          For example, =-—regular binary relations are just graphs of functions.
           197 (a) Show that every x-=-regular relation determines a continuous map­
        ping of type E —> Nx-
           (b) Show that every x-x-regular relation determines a continuous mapping of 
        type E —> E.
           (c)  Show that every =-x-regular relation determines a continuous mapping of 
        type Nx —»• E.
