             134                           5.  M ONOTONE  COMPLEXITY
             she loses the game).  In response, Server may increase the sets allocated to vertices 
             (also obeying the restrictions).  Her goal is to satisfy all the requests in the following 
             sense:  the set allocated to each vertex i should contain an interval whose length is 
             at least the request of i.  (The length of Q,x is 2~n for an n-bit string x.  As we have 
             already explained,  we care about  the contiguous intervals in the allocated space 
             and not about its total size.)
                  If at some moment Server is unable to satisfy the requests made by Client, she 
             loses.  If the game is infinite (and both players follow the restrictions), we say that 
             Server wins.
                  One can  imagine  that  Client  is  the  CEO  of a big  hierarchical  organization 
             which needs some space for its divisions,  subdivisions,  subsubdivisions,  etc.  At 
             every  moment  it  is  known  how  much  space  each  group  requires,  and  the  space 
             allocated to each subgroup should be inside the space for the parent group.  The 
             space cannot be reused, it can only increase, and only the contiguous space counts 
             (the size of the maximal interval, not the sum of the sizes of intervals).
                  Increasing the  height  of the  tree  and  adding  branches,  we  make the task  of 
             Server harder.  The following statement says that it is enough to use trees of depth 
             0(d) and with (constant) branching factor 2°^°{d)  to let Client win:
                  Theorem 88 (Gacs-Day).  For each d ^ 1  and for a tree T of depth 0(d)  and 
             branching factor 2°0)O(d)  at every vertex,  Client has a computable winning strategy 
             in the  corresponding game.  (Computability means that there is an algorithm that, 
             given d,  implements this strategy.)
                  Gâcs has proven a similar result for trees with an infinite (or very large finite) 
             branching factor.  Day improved his construction and made it work for much smaller 
             branching factors.
                 Before constructing the winning strategy, let us explain how its existence im­
             plies  Theorem  87.  Note  the  branching  factor  can  be  decreased  if we  allow  an 
             increase in the depth:  for example,  the tree with a root  and 2n  sons of the root 
             can be embedded into a binary tree of height n (the requests for the intermediate 
             vertices are reconstructed as the sums of the requests of the leaves above them). 
             In a similar way the tree from Theorem 88 can be embedded into a binary tree of 
             height 0(d)o('d\  so Client wins for this binary tree.
                 Let d = 2C, where c is some natural number.  Theorem 88 guarantees that Client 
             has a computable winning strategy on the binary tree of height 2°^c2<:\  Let us use 
             this strategy against Server who follows the optimal computable mapping / : E —> E 
             used to define the monotone complexity.  This means that Server enumerates all 
             pairs  (y,x)  such that x    f(y)  (i.e.,  y  is  a description of x).  When a pair  (y,x) 
             appears, the interval Cty is allocated to vertex x (if x is inside our tree—if the length 
             of x exceeds 2°(c2 \ then x is ignored).  When (and if)  all the requests of Client 
             are satisfied, Server informs Client that she made her move.  After the next move of 
             Client, Server resumes the process and continues until the new requests are satisfied 
             (if it never happens, Server loses the game by not making a move).1
                 Theorem 88 guarantees that at some moment Server loses (she never satisfies 
             Client’s request).  This means that there exists a string x of length at most 2°(c2C)
                 1 Readers  from  the  former  USSR  and  similar  countries  should  be  familiar  with  planned 
             economies when supply does not follow demand:  the factories just produce what is planned until 
             the customers become satisfied (if they are lucky enough to make modest requests).
