                           3.  MARTIN-LÖF  RANDOMNESS
         62
         (where q  and i  are natural numbers, e is a positive rational number)  such that for 
         any fixed q  we  get  a  regular function Xq  (of two  remaining  arguments),  and  all 
         regular functions can be obtained in this way.
           P roof.  Let  us  enumerate  all  programs  for  the  functions  of two  arguments 
         (whether  these  functions  are  regular  or  not);  we  get  a  computable  sequence  of 
         programs, and the gth term of this sequence is called the “gth program” in the rest 
         of the proof.
           Then we define X(q, e, i) as the output of the gth program on input e, i, assum­
         ing that some conditions are met; otherwise X(q,e,i) is undefined.  The conditions 
        guarantee that all Xq are regular, and that regular functions are untouched.
           To compute X(q,e,i), we apply the gth program in parallel to all pairs
                                (£,0), (£, 1), . • • ,
         (starting with one step of the first computation, then making two steps of the first 
        two computations, etc.).
           When some computation terminates with some output, we interrupt this pro­
        cess to verify that strings obtained so far do not violate the regularity condition. 
        This means that we start to compute more and more precise approximations to p(z) 
        for all of these strings until we could guarantee that the sum of all of these p(z) is 
        less then e (this happens if the sum of approximations is less than e minus the sum 
        of approximation errors).  (Since ß is computable, we can compute approximations- 
        to p(z) for any 2 with any precision.)
           It  is possible that we do not return from this interruption; this happens if the 
        sum of measures is not less than e.
           Now X (q, £, i) is defined as the output of the gth program on (e, i) if this output 
        appears and passes the test during the process described.
           If the gth program computes a regular function, the verification will never fail 
        and Xq coincides with this function.  On the other hand, for every q the function 
        Xq is regular:  if for some £ the gth program  (applied to £ and all i = 0,1,2,...) 
        generates strings whose total measure is too large, only finitely many of the strings 
        will be let through, and their total measure is still less than e.  The lemma is proven.
           I 77 I Explain why we need to change the definition of correctness.
           (Answer:  If the  sum  consists  of a  finite  number  of terms  and  their  sum  is 
        exactly £, we may never know this.)
           Now we finish the proof of the Martin-Löf theorem.  Let X  be the function 
        provided by the lemma.  For all q = 0,1,2,... consider the effectively null set Zq 
        that corresponds to the regular function Xq.  Every effectively null set by definition 
        is a subset of Zq for some q.  It remains to show that the union Zq U Z\ U • • •  is an 
        effective null set.
           We do the same trick that is used to prove that a countable union of null sets 
        is a null set.  To find a covering of total measure less that e for (J  Zq, we combine 
        the (£/2)-covering for Zq with (£/4)-covering for Z\, etc.
           More formally, we consider a function x(e,i), that is defined as
                           x(e, [q,k]) = X(q,E/2q+l,k).
        Here  [q, k]  stands  for  the  number  of pair  q, к  under  some  computable  bijection 
        between N2 and N.                                       □
