             158                         5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
                  158  Prove that a real number is random (according to this definition) if and
             only if its binary representation is a random sequence (with respect to the uniform 
             measure on Cl).
                  159 Prove that a square (sine, exponent) of a random real is a random real.
                 (Hint:  A preimage of a null set is a null set,  and this argument can be effec- 
             tivized.)
                  160 Can the sum of two random real numbers be a non-random real?
                 (Hint:  the numbers may be dependent.)
                 The random number Cl (or, better to say, any П-number, since different max­
             imal lower semicomputable semimeasures lead to different numbers) is not just an 
             interesting example.  The class of these numbers has several interesting characteri­
             zations [26, 87].  Our presentation follows [19], a survey that can be considered as 
             an extended version of a footnote in [102].
                 5.7.1.  Solovay reductions and completeness.  Recall that a real number 
             a  is  lower  semicomputable  if a  is  the  limit  of some  computable  non-decreasing 
             sequence of rational numbers.  (An equivalent definition is ... if the set of rational 
             numbers less than a is enumerable.)  We want to classify computable non-decreasing 
             sequences according to their convergence speed and formalize the intuitive idea “one 
             sequence converges better (i.e., not worse) than the other one”.
                 Let cq —>■ oc and bj  —>• /3 be two computable strictly increasing sequences con­
             verging to lower semicomputable reals a and ß  (approximations of a and ß from 
             below).  We say that an  —>  a converges better  (not worse)  than bn  —> ß if there 
             exists a total computable function h such that
                                              Q   ^h(i)  ^5 ß
             for every i.
                 In other words, we require that for each term of the second sequence one may 
             algorithmically find a term of the first one that approaches the limit as close as the 
            given term of the second sequence.  Note that this relation is reflexive and transitive 
             (take the composition of two reducing functions).
                 In fact, the choice of specific sequences that approximate a and ß is irrelevant: 
             any two increasing computable sequences of rational numbers that have the same 
            limit are equivalent with respect to this quasi-ordering.  Indeed, we can just wait 
            to get a term of a second sequence that exceeds a given term of the first one.
                 We can thus set the following definition.  Let a and ß be two lower semicom­
            putable reals, and let (an), (bn) be approximations of a and ß, respectively.  If (an) 
            converges better than (bn), we write a      ß (by the above paragraph, this does not 
            depend on the particular approximations we chose).
                 This definition can be reformulated in different ways.  First, we can eliminate 
            sequences from the definition and say that  a        ß  if there exists a partial com­
            putable function p defined on all rational numbers r < ß such that
                                      p(r) < a  and  a — p(r) < ß — r 
            for all of them.  Below, we refer to p as the reduction function.
                 I  1611 Prove that a lower semicomputable number a is computable if and only 
            if a    ß for every lower semicomputable ß.
                 Here is one more useful reformulation:
