                                      3.  M ARTIN-LOF  RANDOMNESS
            68
                Proof.  It is enough to show that for any enumerable set of strings {xo, x\,...} 
            such that Y2       <1/2 there exists a O'-computable sequence that does not have
            any of Xi as a prefix.  (Indeed, the largest effective null set has such a covering with 
            total measure less than 1/2, and any sequence that is not covered is ML-random.)
                The intervals Q,Xi  are divided into two groups:  some of them belong to the left 
            half of il (i.e., Xj starts with 0) and some belong to the right half.  Total measure of 
            both groups at most 1/2.  Therefore, at least one of the groups has total measure 
            at most  1/4.  However, looking at the sequence X{, we cannot find out which half 
            has this property (since at any moment a new large interval can arrive).
                However, the O'-oracle allows us to make this choice, since the event  “measure 
            exceeds  1/4”  is enumerable.  Then we divide this half into two parts of size  1/4 
            each and choose one of them where the total measure of corresponding intervals 
            does not exceed 1/8, and so on.
                In this way we get a O'-computable sequence with the following property:  Each 
            part of its prefix is at most half-covered by our intervals.  In particular,  no prefix 
            of this sequence can appear in the sequence Xi, and this is what we need.     □
                A similar but more geometric argument can be given if we consider reals in [0,1] 
            instead of binary sequences.  A point x €  [0,1]  is  ML-random with respect to  the 
            Lebesgue measure on [0,1] if its binary representation is ML-random with respect to 
            the uniform measure on the Cantor space.  (A point can have two representations, 
            but  in  this  case  both  are  computable  and  non-random,  so  we  may  ignore  this 
            problem.)  One can also give an equivalent definition of randomness directly.  A set 
            X C  [0,1]  is called an  effectively  null subset  of [0,1]  if there exists an algorithm 
            that  for  every rational e  >  0  enumerates  a cover of X  that  consists  of intervals 
            with rational endpoints whose sum of measures is less than e.  Then an ML-random 
            real  is  a real not  contained in any effectively null subset  of [0,1].  All this is just 
            a simple reformulation of corresponding notions and results for Cantor space since 
            the only difference is that some numbers have two representations (but this happens 
            only for countably many computable reals), and we consider intervals with rational 
            endpoints instead of intervals with dyadic-rational endpoints (this does not matter 
            since we can split an interval with rational endpoints into a computable sequence 
            of dyadic intervals).  In particular, the following statement is true:
                85 Prove that there exists the largest effectively null subset of [0,1]  and its 
            elements are reals whose binary representations are not ML-random with respect 
            to the uniform measure in Cantor space.
                Now we can point out an explicit ML-random point.  Consider an enumerable 
            family of open intervals that have total length less than 1  and cover all non-ML- 
            random points.  The union of this intervals is an open set which is a proper subset 
            of [0,1].  Its complement is a closed set,  and this closed set has a minimal point. 
            By construction this point is ML-random.
                86       Prove that the minimal point that is not covered by an enumerable family 
            of open intervals with rational endpoints is lower semicomputable, i.e., it is a limit of 
            an increasing computable sequence of rational numbers (and therefore is computable 
            with the oracle for the halting problem O').
                (See Section 5.7 (p.  157) for more detail about random reals and for an alter­
            native construction of a lower semicomputable ML-random real.)
