                                   12.9.  NETWORKS  WITH  ONE  SOURCE                    385
                Let us start with an example.  Assume that we want to transmit a string A of 
            length 2к to three destination nodes  (Figure 45);  all the channels have unlimited 
            capacity except for the first three that have capacity k.  Can we achieve this?
                                                 A
                                                  /о
                                               A A A
                              Figure 45.  Splitting information into pieces
                There is no problem to deliver A into each destination separately.  For example, 
            to deliver it into the left destination vertex, we split it into two halves A\  and A2, 
            each containing к bits,  and send these halves using two left channels.  They have 
            capacity k, so this is possible.  (The third channel is useless for this destination.)
                The same trick can be used for two other destinations.  The problem appears 
            when we want to send A to all three destinations at the same time.  For this we 
            would like to cut A into  “three halves”  in such a way that every two of them are 
            enough to reconstruct A.  A standard secret sharing scheme can be used—we send 
            strings Ai, A2 and A\ ® A2 (bitwise XOR, or sum modulo 2) along three channels.
                It turns out that one may do something similar in the general case and prove 
            the following result:
                Theorem 236.  Consider an information transmission request with integer ca­
            pacities,  a  single  input vertex  and an input string A  of length n,  and the same 
            output strings A in several places.  Assume that all the cut-flow conditions are true: 
            For every J that does not contain the input vertex and contains at least one output 
            vertex,  the sum of capacities of all incoming edges  ( that start outside J and arrive 
            to  J)  is  at  least n.  Then  this  request is fulfillable  with О (log n) -precision:  One 
            can find strings for all edges in such a way that for every vertex the conditional 
            complexity of outgoing information given the incoming information is O(logn).
                (The constant hidden in O(logn) depends on the graph but not on n, capacities 
            and A.)
                Proof.  Consider first the case when there is only one output node t.  In this 
            case we need to send n bits of information from source node s to the destination 
            node t along the edges.  Let us imagine that each bit is packed into an envelope 
            (the position is also written inside the envelope).  We get n envelopes in the source 
            node.  We want to bring them to the output node with the restriction that if an 
            edge has capacity k, at most к envelopes could be carried along this edge.
                This envelope-moving problem is solvable due to the Ford-Fulkerson theorem 
            (min-cut equals max-flow (see, e.g., [45], since all capacities are integers, an integer 
            flow exists).  Now we write on each edge the bits that were carried along this edge. 
            More precisely, Ford and Fulkerson provide a set of envelopes for each edge; consider
