             388             12.  M ULTISOURCE  ALGORITHMIC  INFORMATION  THEORY
                  Now we note that if the probability of getting a zero determinant at each given 
             output is less  than  1/ (number  of output  nodes),  then there exist some values of 
             the variables that  make  all  the  determinants  non-zero  simultaneously.  We  have 
             the degree bounded by nE,  the number of outputs is also bounded by E, so the 
             condition nE2  <  |F|  is enough to guarantee the existence of matrices that make 
             all input-output transformations invertible.  (And these matrices can be found by 
             search, so they are simple matrices with this property.)
                  How can we use all this in a situation where we have n bits (and not n elements 
             of a big finite field)?  As usual for coding theory,  let us split the n-bit string into 
             blocks of some size k.  We get (approximately) n/k blocks and interpret each block 
             as an element of a field of size 2 k (such a field exists for all /с, as explained in algebra 
             textbooks).  If it turns out that the number n and all capacities are multiples of k, 
             and that 2 k > (n/k)E2, then we are done.
                  In general, we need some adjustments.  First we choose some value of к such 
             that  2k  >  nE2  (we  ignore  the  1/k  factor,  but  it  is  in  our  favor).  This  gives  us 
             к = O(logn).  Then we round n and the capacities making them multiples of к (n 
             is rounded downwards and capacities are rounded upwards, so the inequalities for 
             cuts remain true).  The rounding error is O(logn), so it does not matter with our 
             precision, and it remains to use the statement we proved.                                □
                   329 Using random linear transformations, construct a probabilistic algorithm 
             that finds the maximal flow in a directed acyclic graph with integer capacities.
                  (Hint:  For a given n we may find whether a flow of size n exists by assigning 
             random matrices to each vertex and checking whether the resulting n x n matrix 
             is invertible.)
                  In  the  rest  of the  chapter we consider examples of the opposite type,  where 
             cut-flow conditions are only necessary, but not sufficient.
                        12.10.  Common information as an information request
                  We have already considered one example where necessary cut-flow conditions 
             turn out to be insufficient—this was the common information problem from Chap­
             ter 11.  In Section 11.2 we asked (for given strings x, у and for given integers a, ß, 7) 
             whether there exists a string 2: such that
                                     C{z) < a,    C{x I z) < ß,    C{y I z) < 7 .
             This problem,  considered up to logarithmic precision,  can be reformulated as an 
             information transmission request  (Figure 47).  Indeed,  if a string 2: with required 
             properties exists, it can be sent along the middle edge (of capacity a);  two other 
             edges should transmit conditional descriptions of x and у given 2:.  (Both 2: and these 
             conditional descriptions can be found by search with logarithmic advice if x and у 
             are given, so there is no new information in the top vertex.)  O11 the other hand, if 
             this information transmission request is fulfillable, then the string 2: sent along the 
             middle edge satisfies the required inequalities (with logarithmic precision).
                  The cut-flow conditions give the inequalities
                             C(x)^oc + ß,  C(y)^a + 7,  C{x, y) ^ a + ß + 7,
             and we have seen in Chapter 11 many different examples of strings x and у where 
             these inequalities turn out to be insufficient for the existence of string 2:  (common 
             information) with required properties.
