                                         5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
             186
                 (b) for every sequence         • • •  that  is ML-random with respect to the uni­
             form Bernoulli measure, there exists a sequence 011013015 ■ ■ •  such that their mixture 
             010011012 • • •  is ML-random with respect to the same measure.
                 The first statement is more or less obvious, but the second is more difficult.  It 
             can be rephrased in terms of pairs of sequences:  If a is ML-random with respect 
             to the uniform measure, there exists a sequence ß such that the pair (a, ß) is ML- 
             random (in a natural sense, with respect to the product of uniform measures on 
             each coordinate).
                 We can go further and ask, We know that such a ß exists, but what properties 
             of ß  are  needed  to  make  the  pair  (a,ß)  random?  It  is  clear  that  ß  should  be 
             random (see above), but this is not sufficient.  For example, if we let ß = a, we get 
             a non-random pair (a, a):  it corresponds to the sequence u>q(jJ\ • • •  where each bit 
             is doubled.
                 The answer to this question is provided by van Lambalgen’s theorem [90]:  the 
            sequence ß should be ML-random and remain ML-random even if we allow the use 
            of a as an oracle in the definition of ML-randomness.
                 Let  P  and  Q  be  two  computable  distributions  on  Cl.  Consider the product 
             P X Q, which is a computable distribution onflxfl (this space is isomorphic to ft, 
             and the definitions of randomness can be easily extended onto it).
                 Theorem  125.  A  pair of sequences  {£,77)  is  ML-random with respect  to  the 
             distribution P x Q if and only if the following conditions are both true:
                 (1)  £  is ML-random with respect to P;
                 (2)  77  is ML-random relative to £  (with oracle £)  with respect to Q.
                 Speaking about  relativized  randomness,  we  mean that  the  algorithm,  which 
             (for a given e  >  0)  enumerates the intervals in the cover,  now has access to £ as 
            an oracle (so we get more enumerable sets, more non-random sequences, and fewer 
            random sequences).
                 Note also that  the conditions  (1)  and  (2)  are not  symmetric with respect to 
            £  and  77.  Theorem  125  implies  that  condition  (1)  can be replaced  by  a stronger 
            requirement:  £ is random relative to 77.  However, the non-symmetric version looks 
            more natural.  It can be read as,  “to produce a random pair, first choose a random 
            £ and then choose a random 77 knowing £ (=random relative to £)”.
                 Proof.  Let us prove first that conditions  (1)  and  (2)  are true for a random 
            pair (£ 77).
                 (1)  If the sequence £ is not  random and can be covered by intervals of small 
            measure,  then the same  intervals multiplied  by ft  (along the second  coordinate) 
            become rectangles (products of intervals along both coordinates) that cover (£, 77) 
            and have small measure.  (We can also refer to Theorem 123.)
                 (2) Assume that 77 is not random with oracle £.  Then for each e we can (using 
            £ as an oracle) enumerate intervals that cover 77 and have small Q-measure.  This 
            enumeration process can be run with any oracle and it will generate some intervals 
            using a finite amount of information about the oracle.
                Therefore, we get (for a given e > 0) a family of rectangles that is enumerable 
            (without oracle) and has the following property:  If the first coordinate is fixed to 
            be £, the rectangles become a family of intervals with total Q-measure at most e. 
            This family can be easily converted into a family of rectangles for which all vertical 
            sections (not only the ^-section) have the same property and all the sections where
