                            8.5.  FORBIDDEN  SUBSTRINGS         241
         where p'n  =  1/2 + S'n.  Recalling  our  discussion  of entropy,  we  may  say  that  a 
         sequence (cu)n where frequencies of zeros and ones are pn and 1 — pn is encoded by 
         a code adapted to the simplified frequencies p'n and 1 — p'n.  The expression (*) can 
         only increase if we replace pn by p'n:  since pn > p'n > 1/2, the second expression in 
         square brackets is greater than the first one, and increasing its weight by decreasing 
         pn, we increase the entire expression (*).
            Finally we get the bound
                      n -  0(1) < nh(pn,l-p 'n) + (1 +£)loglogn
         for every e > 0 (the inequality holds for all sufficiently large n).  As before, it implies
                          ô'n  <  (1 + е)л/\п2 • loglogn/2n.
         For a  true  Sn  we get  a slightly  bigger bound  (1/0.9  times  bigger);  since 0.9  can 
         be replaced by an arbitrary number less than 1, we get the desired statement (the 
         factor In 2  is  used  to  convert  the  binary  logarithm  to  the natural one,  while the 
         replacement of the second binary logarithm by the natural one can be compensated 
         by a change of £ in the factor (1 + e)).               □
            243    Show that this argument can be used to prove the statement of Theo­
         rem 156 not only for ML-random sequences but also for arbitrary sequence oj such 
         that n — KM((u))n) = o(loglogn).
                           8.5.  Forbidden substrings
           8.5.1.  Forbidden and simple substrings.  The statement we prove in this 
         section is an example of a non-trivial application of Kolmogorov complexity (that 
         cannot be directly translated into a counting argument).
           Theorem  157.  Let a <  1  be a positive real number.  Assume that for each n 
         some binary strings are called forbidden strings and there are at most 2an forbidden 
         strings for any length n.  Then there exists some c and an infimité sequence of zeros 
         and ones that does not have forbidden substrings of length c or more.
           For  example,  we can declare strings  of length n  and  (plain)  complexity less 
         than an as forbidden strings.  Then we get the following corollary (called Levin’s 
         lemma, see [51]):
           Theorem 158.  Let a < 1 be a positive real number.  There exists an infinite se­
         quence of zeros and ones such that any of its substrings of sufficiently large length n 
         has complexity at least an.
           It  is  instructive to compare this statement with the randomness criterion for 
         the uniform measure  (Theorem 94,  p.  151).  In this criterion we considered only 
         the prefixes of the sequence (instead of all substrings); on the other hand the lower 
         bound for complexity was n — 0(1)  instead of a weaker bound an that we have 
         now.  (The bound n — 0(1) was for monotone complexity; it implies the n — O(logn) 
         bound for plain complexity that we use now).  The following problem shows that 
         such a strong bound cannot be true for all the substrings  (not a surprise, since a 
         truly random sequence contains all substrings, including simple ones).
            244    For each infinite sequence u) of zeros and ones there exist a < 1 and infin­
         itely many substrings that have complexity per letter (the ratio complexity/length) 
         at most a.
