        310     9.  FREQUENCY AND  GAME APPROACHES TO  RANDOMNESS
              Figure  29.  Relations between different notions of randomness
        bets  of arbitrary  computable  size  (not  exceeding  the  current  capital),  as  in  the 
        definition of computable random sequences?  One can naturally define this class of 
        sequences;  they are sometimes called  unpredictable  or Kolmogorov-Loveland ran­
        dom.  It is easy to prove that all ML-random sequences have this property, but it is 
        not known now (2017) whether these two classes coincide.  One can note also that 
        for non-monotonic martingales  (games with non-monotonic subsequences) it does 
        not matter whether they are total or not  (the same argument as in Theorem 191 
        (p.  291) works).
          Finally, let us summarize what we know about relations between different no­
        tions of randomness (Figure 29).  We have two columns; in each column the notion 
        becomes weaker  (and  the  class  of random  sequences  increases)  as  we  go  down. 
        The left column contains game definitions (extending Ville’s idea in different ways) 
        that  use martingales of different  types.  The right  column  (extending von Mises’ 
        ideas in different ways)  uses selection rules of different types.  Both columns start 
        with  Martin-Löf randomness  (that  is  equivalent  to  randomness  with  respect  to 
        lower semicomputable martingales) and the definition of randomness with respect 
        to non-monotonie (partial) computable martingales.  We do not know whether these 
        definitions are equivalent or if the second one is weaker.
          In the right column the class of admissible selection rules decreases; in the left 
        column the requirements  for a winning strategy increase  (see Section  9.9,  Theo­
        rem  183,  and  Problem  272).  So  the corresponding classes of random  sequences 
        increase when we go down.
          To see why all the implications shown (except for the top one) are irreversible 
        and there are no other implications, let us consider the relations between columns. 
        As we have seen, Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland randomness does not imply even the 
        weakest notion in the left column—Kurtz randomness (Problem 280)—so there are 
        no implications going from right to left.
