             160                         5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
             so one may want a and 2a to be equivalent.  In other words, one may look for a 
             less fine-grained relation.  A natural candidate for this is called Solovay reducibility 
             (see  [188]).
                 We say that a is Solovay reducible to ß  (a =4 ß) if &     cß for some positive 
             integer c > 0.  (A convenient notation:  We say,  for some positive rational c, that 
             a =^c ß if a   cß.  Then a =<I ß if a =<IC ß for some c.)  This relation is also reflexive 
            and transitive (obviously).
                 Theorem 102.  There exists a biggest lower semicomputable real with respect 
             to Solovay reducibility.
                 P r o o f.  We can enumerate all lower semicomputable reals a.i in [0,1] and then 
            take their sum a — Y2wiai with computable positive weights Wi such that 
            converges.  This a can be represented as WiCti plus some lower semicomputable real, 
            so ai     (1 /wi)a.                                                                □
                 The biggest elements for the =<I-preorder are also called Solovay complete lower 
            semicomputable reals.  One can even define some qualitative notion of completeness 
             deficiency:  for a lower semicomputable real ß the completeness deficiency is defined 
            as minimal c such that a =<h  cß.  Here a is some fixed Solovay complete real;  the 
            deficiency function depends on the choice of a, but is still defined up to the 0 (1)- 
            factor.  The deficiency of ß is finite if and only if ß is Solovay complete.
                It  turns  out that Solovay complete reals can be equivalently described as fl- 
            numbers defined above [188, 26].
                 Theorem 103.  Complete semicomputable reals in (0,1)  are sums of universal 
            (maximal) semimeasures on N and vice versa.
                 Proof.  Any  lower  semicomputable  real  a  is  a sum  of a computable  series 
            of rationale;  this series  (up to a constant factor that does not matter due to the 
            definition of the Solovay reducibility) is bounded by a universal semimeasure.  The 
            difference between the upper bound and the series itself is a lower semicomputable, 
            and therefore a is reducible to the sum of the universal semimeasure.
                On the other hand, let a be a Solovay complete real in (0,1).  We need to show 
            that a is a sum of some universal semimeasure.  Let us start with the arbitrary 
            universal semimeasure      .  The sum ^      is lower semicomputable and therefore 
            J2mi  =^i  ca,  so  a  —  X^mi/C + r  f°r some  integer c  >  0  and some  lower semi­
            computable t .  Dividing m by c and then adding т to one of the values, we get a 
            universal semimeasure with sum a.                                                  □
                It  turns  out  that  these  reals  (Solovay  complete  lower  semicomputable  reals, 
            or Q-numbers) have one more description:  they are exactly lower semicomputable 
            ML-random real numbers in (0,1).  The equivalence proof consists of several parts; 
            let us consider them one by one.
                5.7.2.      Solovay complete reals are random.  We already have shown that 
            Solovay complete reals are random:  each of them is an Q-number, i.e., a sum of the 
            values of universal semimeasure, and this sum is random (Theorem 100).  Formally 
            speaking, this argument applies only to numbers between 0 and 1, but the general 
            case can be reduced to this special one by adding a rational number.  Still there 
            is an interesting direct argument that does not involve complexity and the Levin- 
            Schnorr criterion of randomness  (it is in the footnote in Levin’s paper [102];  this
