           196                6.  GENERAL SCHEME FOR COMPLEXITIES
               (h)  Consider the composition of an optimal KR -decompressor and / as a C- 
           decompressor.
               (i)  Consider the composition of an optimal C-decompressor and f as a KR -de­
           compressor.
               (j) Two incompatible strings cannot share a description (since in this case they 
           would be prefixes of some sequence,  and the shorter string would be a prefix of 
           the longer one).  If all elements of a prefix-free set of strings have complexity less 
           than n, then their descriptions are different strings of length less than n, and there 
           exist fewer than 2n such strings.
               (k)  Applying in parallel  the optimal  description  mode to  all strings,  we get 
           upper bounds for KR  (that may decrease when new descriptions are found); they 
           converge to KR.
               (l)  This is the first interesting claim in this theorem  (up to now we had only 
           simple variations on known themes).
               Let A: be a function that satisfies (j) and (k).  Adding a constant to k, we may 
           assume without loss of generality that there are at most 2n pairwise inconsistent 
           strings ж such that k(x) < n.
              We construct a description mode that gives every string x such that k(x) < n 
           a description of length exactly n.  This is done independently (and in parallel) for 
           each n.  Namely, we watch the decreasing upper bounds for к and write down the 
           (increasing) list of strings x such that k(x) < n.  Consider a subtree of a full binary 
           tree that is formed by the strings in the list and all their prefixes.  This is a growing 
           subtree that has (all the time) at most 2n leaves.  (Indeed, the leaves are pairwise 
           incompatible strings x such that k(x) < n.)  Let us attach a label to each leaf; this 
           label is a string of length n.  When the subtree grows by adding some new string, 
           this string either extends one of the leaves (so it is not a leaf anymore) or creates a 
           new branch (being attached to some internal node).  In the first case the new string 
           is a leaf, and this leaf keeps the label of the superseded one.  In the second case we 
           provide a new label for the new leaf (which is possible since we have fewer than 2n 
           leaves).
              Let us fix a label and look what happens with leaves carrying this label.  Initially 
           the label is unused.  It is possible that the label remains unused forever (we do not 
           need that many labels), but if it is not the case, the label is attached to some leaf 
           and then moves up the tree (the next position is a son of the previous one).  So this 
           label marks some branch of the tree (finite or infinite sequence of zeros and ones). 
           In this way we get a function that maps strings of length n (i.e., labels) to £ (the 
           strings that are not labels are mapped to A, the empty sequence).
              Combining these mappings for all n, we get a A72-description mode that guar­
           antees complexity at most n for all strings x such that k(x) < n, just as we claimed.
               (m) If xi are pairwise inconsistent binary strings, then ^)2~ KA^Xi1 ^ 1  (since
           2" KA    equals the a priori probability of the set £Xi, and these sets are disjoint). 
           Therefore we have at most 2n strings such that K A (ж*) < n and may refer to the 
           previous statement.                                                    □
               194      Prove that KR (ж) can be defined as follows:  for any computable function 
           S of two arguments  (the first is a binary string,  the second is a natural number; 
           values of f  are zeros  and  ones),  let  KRs(x)  for  a string ж  =  жо ■ • ■ xn-i  be  the 
           minimal length of the string у such that S(y, i) = ж,; for alH = 0,1,— 1.  Then
