                                         9.8.  COMPUTABLE MARTINGALES                               281
              number of martingales involved)  unchanged.  On the other hand,  we may  (from 
              time to time) add a new term £^т^(ж) to this linear combination, choosing £k > 0 
              so small that the sum remains less than 2 (the closer the combination is to 2 and 
              the bigger is the value rrik(x)  for current ж, the smaller     should be).
                  In this way we get a sequence on which all rrii  are bounded, because each m; 
              appears in the sum (bounded by 2) with a positive coefficient (though maybe very 
             small one).
                  The decision  complexity of this sequence is bounded  by the number of used 
             advice  bits  and  can  grow  as  slow  as  we  want  (if we  add  new  martingales  only 
             rarely).  And the plain (or prefix) Kolmogorov complexity of the initial segments is 
             O(logn), as we promised.
                  (c) Recall that the SLLN says that the set of unbalanced sequences has measure 
             zero, and the corresponding martingale (that wins on all unbalanced sequences) can 
             be chosen to be computable (see Section 9.6 where we constructed martingales for 
             each threshold and then mixed them; it can be done in a computable way).
                  Moreover,  if R is  a set  and  Sr is  the  corresponding  selection  rule,  we  can 
             easily construct  a martingale  that  wins on every sequence uj  such that  Sr{oj) is 
             not balanced.  Indeed, the martingale should ignore the terms that are not selected 
             by Sr (keeping the capital unchanged) and use the martingale from the preceding 
             paragraph playing with the selected terms.
                  For computable R we get a computable martingale, so for every sequence that 
             is not Mises-Church random, we can find a computable martingale that wins on it 
             and thus proves that it is not computably random.
                  (d)  Consider a Mises-Church random sequence where each prefix contains as
             many zeros as ones (or more); see Theorem 172.  Let pn be the probability (with 
             respect  to the  uniform Bernoulli distribution)  that  all prefixes of length at most 
             n contain at least as many zeros as ones.  As we already discussed (Problems 261 
             and 262), the probabilities pn form a computable decreasing sequence that converges 
             to zero.  For each n we can computably find a martingale Mn that wins 1 fpn on 
             every sequence such that all prefixes up to length n contain at least as many zeros 
             as ones.  It remains to take a weighted sum of some Mn  (in such a way that  1 fpn 
             increases  faster  than  the  coefficients  decrease)  and  get  a computable  martingale 
             that is not bounded on the sequence we started with.                                    □
                   267  Give an explicit construction of a martingale used in the proof of (d).
                  (Hint:  Assume that we come to a casino knowing in advance that every prefix 
             of the  game  sequence  has  at  least  as  many  heads  as  tails.  Then  we  can  make 
             bets  of fixed  size  being  sure  that  we  never  run  out  of money.  If the  difference 
             between the number of heads and tails tends to infinity, this is the winning strategy 
             (martingale).  If it is not the case, there exists some moment t and some number I 
             such that, starting from t, the difference between heads and tails is at least I and 
             is equal to I infinitely often (liminf).  Then after t we can make a bet on tails when 
             the difference is I, and we always win.  So we get a martingale for the first case and 
             a family of martingales (with parameters t and I) for the second case; it remains to 
             combine them into one martingale.)
                  Note that the statements (b) and (c) imply that there exists a Mises-Church 
             random sequence with logarithmic complexity of prefixes.  In this way we get a new 
             proof of Theorem 173 (following [120]).
