                                9.12.  NON-MONOTONIC  SELECTION  RULES                  293
            there are many cases when bits equal to t are selected and the next bit to be se­
            lected is chosen (depending of the values of the revealed but not selected bits) so 
            the condition C  can be split  into  a union of disjoint subsets  Ci,  and  for each of 
            them the conditional probability Pr[E\Ci]  equals p:  the event  Ci  determines the 
            position of the bit  that will become the kth bit in the selected sequence,  and Ci 
            is  determined by the values of the other bits  (before this position).  Then we (by 
            induction) conclude that the probability that the first n selected bits form a given 
            string и is bounded by the probability of getting и according to Bv,  and we sum 
            these inequalities over all и G DnA.
                It remains to note that the set of sequences u>, such that <SV,g(w) has a prefix in 
            Dn>q, not only has small measure but also is effectively open (since we can enumerate 
            different scenarios when such a prefix could appear).  So for each q we get  (as in 
            the proof of the effective version of the SLLN) an effectively null set.  (Similar sets 
            should be considered for all rational q < p.)  So an ML-random sequence does not 
            belong to these sets, and this finishes the proof.                           □
                In the next section we prove the following generalization of statement  (b):  if 
            a computable sequence pn of real numbers in (0,1) computably converges to some 
           p  G (0,1), then every sequence that  is  ML-random with respect  to  the product 
            measure (independent trials with success probability pi  in the ith trial) is Mises- 
            Kolmogorov-Loveland  random with parameter p.  This  statement  is  an  impor­
            tant  tool  (suggested by M.  van Lambalgen)  for constructing examples of Mises- 
            Kolmogorov-Loveland  random sequences  with  pathological  properties  (not  ML- 
            random, having more zeros that ones in all prefixes, and others).
                Now we take another direction and show  (for the case of uniform  measure) 
            that every Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland sequence has almost maximal complexity 
            of prefixes.  (Recall that this is not the case for Mises-Church and Mises-Church- 
            Daley random sequences.)
                Theorem  193.  Let to  be a binary sequence such that C{ojq • • -wn_i)  < an for 
            some a  <  1  and for all sufficiently  large n.  Then oj  is  not  Mises-Kolmogorov- 
            Loveland random.
               This result (proven by An. Muchnik in the late 1980s) was later strengthened: 
            it  turned out  that  if the inequality is true for infinitely many n,  the sequence is 
            not Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random.  But we prove only the original weaker 
           statement.
               For this  proof we need some auxiliary statement  about  the price of  “insider 
            information” in the game with fixed size bets.  Let us state and prove this statement 
           first,  and then come back to the proof of Theorem 193.
               Assume that we come to a casino when a sequence of random bits is generated 
            by coin tossings,  and before each of them we can make a bet и G [— 1,1], where 
           positive (resp. negative) и means that we bet on 1  (resp. on 0).  After the coin is 
           tossed, we get и dollars if the bit is 1 and — и dollars if the bit is 0.
               Note that (unlike for martingale games) our maximal bet is always 1 and does 
           not  depend on how much we have won  (or lost)  in the previous games.  So our 
           potential loss is not bounded (in the martingale games the loss was bounded by the 
           initial capital).  To avoid confusion, let us stress also that we play with the bits in 
           the same order as they appear (we do not consider the non-monotonic rules yet).
