                      5.9.  RANDOMNESS WITH RESPECT TO  DIFFERENT MEASURES        177
               We have constructed a mapping of Q to  [0,1]  that  is an isomorphism in the 
           sense of measure theory.  It is not a one-to-one mapping since the endpoints of the 
           intervals have two preimages, but the endpoints form a (countable) set of measure 0. 
           The computability of the measure guarantees that effectively null sets with respect 
           to ßi  correspond to the effectively null sets with respect to the uniform measure, 
           therefore we get a bijection between the sets of ML-random sequences with respect 
           to corresponding measures.  (Note that the endpoints of the segments,  as well as 
           corresponding sequences xOOO • • •  and rrl 11 • • •, are not random.  Note also the ß\- 
           measure of some Qx can be zero, and then its image is one point, but this does not 
           matter; all the sequences starting with x are then non-random.)
               It  remains to do the same for ß2  and then take the composition of these two 
           bijections  (using  [0,1]  as  an  intermediate  step).  The  computabity  of the  corre­
           sponding mappings is easy to prove since both measures ßi and ßo are assumed to 
           be computable.                                                          □
               Using the language of computability theory,  we can state a corollary of this 
           result.  Recall that two sequences (or two sets:  we identify a set and its character­
           istic sequence) are  Turing-equivalent (belong to the same Turing degree) if each of 
           them is computable by a machine that uses the other sequence as an oracle.  The 
           equivalence classes  are called  Turing  degrees.  Our  theorem shows that  the class 
           of Turing degrees of ML-random sequences does not depend on the choice of an 
           atomless computable measure.
               175       Prove that  every sequence that  is  random with respect  to  some com­
           putable measure ß (not necessarily atomless) is either computable or Turing-equiv­
           alent to a uniformly ML-random sequence.
               (Hint:  Consider the intervals 7rx. for x that are prefixes of to and their common 
           point.  If it is not unique, then ui is computable.  If the common point 2: is unique, 
           then 2 is uniformly random and can be computed given an oracle for to.  On the 
           other hand, uj is computable if we have approximations to 2 as an oracle:  we use 
           that 2 is random and therefore different from all the endpoints of the intervals.)
              5.9.2.  “Absolutely non-random sequences”.  Consider some sequence uj. 
           We want to find a computable measure ß such that ui is ML-random with respect 
           to ß.  Is it always possible?  The answer turns out to be negative.
              Theorem 122.  There exists an infinite sequence of zeros and ones that is not 
           ML-random with respect to any computable measure on Q,.
              Sequences  that  are  random  with respect  to  some  computable  measure  were 
           called  “proper”  in  [225]  (English  translation).  The  theorem states  that  not  all 
           sequences are proper.  There are different ways to construct a non-proper sequence. 
           We start with the most intuitive one that uses the a priori randomness deficiency. 
           Recall  that  the  ML-randomness  criterion  (for  a computable  measure  P)  can be 
           reformulated in the following way.  For each string x consider the difference
                                 dp(x) = -  log2 P(flx) - KA (x).
           The sequence to is ML-random with respect to P if this difference is bounded (by 
           a constant)  for the prefixes of u).  So we may call this difference the  randomness 
           deficiency  of a string x  (with respect  to  computable  measure  P):  a sequence is 
           random if the deficiencies of its prefixes are bounded (by a constant).
