                           5.6.  LEVIN-SCHNORR THEOREM          155
         (here l(x) stands for the length of x) is enumerable; see the remark after the proof 
         of this theorem on p. 152.                             □
           In this theorem we can also replace C((w)n) by C((uj)n\n).
            149 Verify that this is indeed possible, 
           This esult was proven in P. Gàcs paper [56, p. 391].
            150 Show that we cannot let f(n) = 2 log n in Theorem 96.
            (Hint:  Theorem 95 says that for an ML-random ui we have a stronger inequality 
         C((u)n) ^ n — logn — 2 log logn — 0(1).  Therefore, if we computably interleave a 
         random sequence with the zero sequence (and zeros are sparse enough), we get a 
         non-random sequence such that C((uj)n) > n — 2 logn — 0(1).  A similar argument 
         shows that we cannot get a computably convergent series 2“^ n*  for a function / 
         that makes Theorem 96 true.)
           All  the  results  above  still  do  not  answer  a  very  natural  question:  Can  one 
         eliminate /  completely and require that C((uj)n) ^ n — 0(1)  (similar to monotone 
         complexity criterion)?
           Of course, this would be the most natural version of the randomness criterion, 
         so it was tried in the very beginning.  Martin-Löf noticed that this approach does 
         not work:  any binary string is a substring of a random sequence, so any random 
         sequence contains arbitrarily large groups of zeros.  And if a string of length n ends 
        with к zeros, then its complexity is at most n — к + 2 log к + 0 (1)  (21ogfc bits are 
         needed for a prefix-free encoding of к and n — k bits for the rest), and the difference 
         between length and (plain) complexity is at least к — 2 log к — 0 (1).
           The following theorem  (see  [225,  117])  gives  a  more  precise  bound  for  the 
         unavoidable difference between length and  complexity  (we mentioned this result 
        earlier in Problem 54):
           Theorem 99.  There exists some c such that for any ui G Q the inequality
                             C((u)n) ^ n -  logn + c
         holds for infinitely many n.
           Proof.  For each n let us select (l/n)-th fraction of all strings of length n, i.e., 
         |_2n/nJ  strings  of length n.  We want to do this in such a way that each infinite 
        sequence  has  infinitely  many  selected prefixes  (and  the  set  of selected  strings  is 
        decidable).
           Why is this possible?  The series ^  1 /n diverges so we can split its terms into 
        infinitely many groups, and each group has sum greater than 1.  Using one group, 
        we get one layer of О-covering (this means that each sequence w £ 0 has a prefix 
        among the strings that correspond to that layer).  To do this, we consider the strings 
        in order of increasing length and select strings whose prefixes are not yet selected. 
         (There is  a rounding problem since 2n/n is not  an integer,  but  it  can be easily 
        fixed.)
           Every selected string of length n can be described (if n is known) by its ordinal 
        number, and this requires n — logn bits.  Therefore, the conditional complexity of 
        this string (with condition n) is at most n — logn + 0(1).  Moreover, if we make a 
        combined list of all selected strings (in the order of increasing length), the ordinal 
        number  increases  by  an  0(l)-factor.  Indeed,  the  number  of selected  strings  of 
        given length grows almost as a geometric sequence, and adding all selected strings
