                                       12.11.  SIMPLIFYING  A  PROGRAM                        389
                                      12.11.  Simplifying a program
                 In the previous section we have seen an example of an information request that 
             can be not fulfillable even if all the cut-flow conditions are satisfied.  This request is 
             rather complicated, and it is interesting to find a simpler example.  In this section 
            we mention one of these examples—it turns out that the statement of Theorem 229 
             is quite close to the boundary line, and just a slightly more general setting makes 
             the cut-flow conditions insufficient.
                 Consider an information request suggested by Vyugin (Figure 48).  The differ­
            ence with Muchnik’s theorem is that now instead of reconstructing one of the input 
            strings  (P in the current notation), we have to obtain some third string (В).  The 
            cut-flow conditions for this problem are C(B\A) ^ к and C(B\A,P) = 0 (consid­
            ered with logarithmic precision).  They are (as always) necessary, but one can show 
            that they are not sufficient.
                 This request can be described informally as “simplification of a program”.  Since 
            C(B\A,P)  =  0,  the string  P  can  be  considered  as  a program  (or  information 
            sufficient for a program)  that transforms A into B\  however, the complexity of P 
            is bigger than strictly necessary, i.e., it exceeds к =  C(B \ A).  Can we find another 
            program, of minimal possible complexity C(B\A), that transforms A to В and at 
            the same time is a  “simplification”  of the first one  (i.e.,  has no  new information 
            compared to Р)?
                 The detailed  explanation of the  negative  answer  (even several  explanations, 
            using game, probabilistic, and combinatorial arguments) is given in [140].
                                 Figure 47.  Common information request
                                                  P 
                                                  к 
                                                  В
                                  FIGURE 48.  Simplification of a program
