                               5.9.  RANDOMNESS  WITH  RESPECT TO  DIFFERENT  MEASURES                              187
               this inequality was true before the conversion remain untouched.  This contradicts 
               the randomness of (£, 77), since we can get a family of rectangles that cover (£, 77)  and 
               have total measure at most e (since every vertical section has measure at most e).
                     Now let us prove that if the pair (£, 77) is not random, then one of the conditions 
                (1)  and  (2)  is  false.   Assume  {£,77)  is  not  random.  Let  U  be  the  union  of an 
               enumerable family of rectangles in Q, x ft of measure at most e that covers (£,77). 
               For each fixed value of the first coordinate x, let Ux denote the x-section of U, i.e., 
               the set  {y\{x,y)  €  U}.  Consider the values of x such that the Q-measure of Ux 
               is  greater than y/e.  We get a set of P-measure at most у/e that is a union of an 
               enumerable family of intervals.
                     There  are  two  possibilities:  Either £  is  covered  by  an  enumerable  family  of 
               intervals having total P-measure at most  yfe that we have constructed,  or  (£, 77) 
               is  covered  by  a  family  V  of rectangles  such  that  the  Q-measure  of                 does  not 
               exceed yfe.  (Other sections may have bigger measure, this does not matter.)  In the 
               second case rj is covered by a £-enumerable family of intervals of total measure at 
               most y/e.
                    We would like to apply this argument for every e and conclude that either £ is 
               not random or rj is not random with oracle £.  The first conclusion can be drawn 
               if for every e the first possibility happens; the second one, if the second possibility 
               happens for every e.  But what  should we do if both cases happen for different 
               values of el
                    The following simple  trick  helps.  For  every  к  =  1,2,3,...  we  perform  this 
               construction for e — 2~2k.  Then for each к we get a family V(k) of intervals (along 
               the first coordinate)  that  have total P-measure at most  2~k  =  y/2~2k.  Now the 
               two possibilities are as follows:
                     (a) the family V(к) covers £ for infinitely many k\
                     (b)  for sufficiently large к the family V(k) does not cover £.
                    If (a) happens, for each К the union of V(к) for all к ^ К gives us an enumer­
               able cover of £ that has total measure 2 • 2~K, so £ is not random.
                    If  (b)  happens,  then for each  к greater than some К one can £-enumerate a 
               family of intervals that covers rj and has total Q-measure at most 2~k, so rj is not 
               £-random.  (We do not know the value of K, but this does not matter.)                                □
                    This theorem also has a quantitative version  (see  [209],  or  [7]  for a detailed 
               exposition):  one can prove that the expectation-bounded deficiency d of the pair 
               (£, 77)  with respect to P x Q is equal to the sum of the expectation-bounded defi­
               ciency d\  of £ with respect to P and the expectation-bounded deficiency cfo  of rj 
               with respect to Q using the oracle for £ and a condition  |_dij  (the integer-rounded 
               value of the first deficiency).  To make this statement precise, one should give the 
               definition of expectation-bounded deficiency with oracle and condition (as a func­
               tion of a sequence, oracle,  and condition),  and this can be done.  In this way we 
               get a formula that resembles the formula for the prefix complexity of a pair (and 
               the  statement  of Problem  56,  p.  44).  (It  would  be  nice  to  prove  the  statement 
               about deficiencies using the statement about complexities and the expression for 
               the deficiency in terms of complexities, but it is not clear how to achieve this.)
                    It  would  be  also  nice  to  generalize  van  Lambalgen’s  theorem  to  the  case  of 
               dependent random variables and to prove that the pair (£, 77) is random with respect 
               to a computable distribution on Q, x Q, if and only if £ is random with respect to the 
               projection of this distribution on the first coordinate (called marginal distribution)
