             332           10.  INEQUALITIES  FOR ENTROPY,  COMPLEXITY  AND  SIZE
             for  (xi,... ,xn)  G A.  Therefore,  for  each  element  of A  at  least  one  term  in the 
             left-hand side is upper-bounded by the corresponding term in the right-hand side: 
             For every (aq...., xn) G A there exists I such that
                                           C(xj) ^ nj + O(logJV),
             i.e., xj belongs to the set of all objects of complexity at most nj + О (log N).  This 
             set  (more precisely, its intersection with A) can be now used as Bj.
                 This ends the proof for the case when A is simple.  The result can be extended 
             to  arbitrary A by a standard trick.  For each N consider all possible subsets A C 
             X\ X • • • X Xn where all Xj consist of strings of length at most N.  Among all these 
             A, we consider the “worst”  one (for given coefficients Xj and (ij), i.e., the set that 
             has the worst ratio of the sizes of the left-  and  right-hand  sides for optimal Bj. 
             This set can be found by an exhaustive search (for given N and given coefficients 
             Лi,ßj),  so  it  is simple,  and we can apply the argument  above.  Since it  was the 
             most difficult set, the same statement is true for all other sets.
                 In fact, this argument has some flaw.  We do not assume that the coefficients 
             Xj  and (ij  are rational  (they may even be non-computable reals).  However,  it is 
             enough to know them with precision 1/iV, since all logarithms of cardinalities are 
             bounded by N, and this brings only 0(1) total error.  And we need only O(logiV) 
             bits to specify the coefficients with that precision.
                 So we have proven one direction of the statement of the theorem.  It remains 
             to show that if the statement about the cover is true, then the inequalities for the 
             complexities are also true.  This can be done with the same typization trick.
                 Consider an arbitrary tuple aq,..., xn of strings.  Each has complexity at most 
             N.  Assume that  the  inequality  for  complexities  is  false  and  the  left-hand  side 
             significantly (by more than O(logiV)) exceeds the right-hand side.  The typization 
             trick gives us an almost uniform set A = A(xi,..., xn).  Let us define nj.  Decrease 
             all C(xj) by the same quantity in such a way that the left-hand side becomes equal 
             to the right-hand side.  Since logmq(J) does not exceed C(xj), we can apply our 
             assumption.  In this way we get a cover of A by sets Bj whose /-projections have 
             at most 2n,+°(log N') elements.  This is significantly smaller than the corresponding 
             projection of the set  A;  it  contains about  2C^X’^  elements.  (Recall that we have 
             decreased nj significantly.)  Since A is almost uniform, every part that generates a 
             small fraction in one of its projections is a small part of A itself, so the sets Bj (the 
             number of these sets is fixed) cannot cover A entirely.                            □
                  289 Make all the  estimates  in this  argument  precise  (instead  of speaking
             about  “significant increase”,  “small fraction”, and so on).
                  290  Show that Theorem 213 and its proof can be generalized to the inequal­
             ities that contain conditional entropies (not only unconditional ones)
                             10.9.  One more combinatorial interpretation
                 The last argument in the previous section suggests another combinatorial inter­
             pretation for inequalities.  It looks somewhat less natural, but it is easy to formulate 
             since now we do not need to separate the positive and negative coefficients in the 
             inequalityand treat them differently.
