                                10.11.  DIMENSIONS  AND  INGLETON’S  INEQUALITY                  337
                 Now let  us  consider  the  case  n  =  3.  Here  we  have  a  subset  in  M7.  The 
             coordinates  correspond to  seven  non-empty subsets  of the three-element  set.  It 
             is  convenient  to  perform a linear transformation of this space and consider other 
             coordinates a\,..., 07, as described in Figure 5 (p. 49) for the case of Kolmogorov 
             complexities.  In these coordinates our inequalities just mean that all a*, except for 
             the central part a5  (that we denoted by /(£1 :^2:^з))5 are non-negative,2  and this 
             central part is non-negative if we add 02, 04 or üq to it.  We can say that £ С M7 is 
             a subset of a set F defined by these inequalities.
                 It is easy to see that F is a set of non-negative linear combinations of finitely 
             many generators.  These generators can be chosen in the following way.  First, we 
             let some a-L be 1 while all others are zeros.  In this way we get seven vectors.  This 
             is  not  enough:  we add one more where as  =  — 1,  02  =     — а% =  1,  and all the
             other ai  are zeros.  All these vectors belong to F\  let us check that they generate 
             the entire F.  Indeed, take some point in F.  The value of as may be negative, but 
             its absolute value does not exceed 02, 04, and üq, so we take our special vector with 
             coefficient  |as|  and then adjust all the other coordinates as needed.
                 Now it is clear that there are no other inequalities for entropies.  Indeed,  all 
             the  generating  vectors  belong  to  £  (can  be  implemented  as  entropies);  the  last 
             vector corresponds to independent £1  and £2  uniformly distributed in  {0,1}  and 
             £3 = £1 + £2  (mod 2).  Every true inequality is true for the generators, so it is true 
             for the entire F (and is a consequence of basic inequalities).
                  291  Show that the set £ (for n — 3) is not convex.  For example, for the last 
             generator e the vector Ae belongs to £ if and only if A is the logarithm of some 
             positive integer.
                  292 Show that  (for arbitrary n)  the set £ is closed under addition:  If two
             vectors e, e' £       belong to £, then their sum e + e' also belongs to £.
                 (Hint:  Consider two tuples that give e and e', and combine independent copies 
             of them.)
                  293  Prove that the closure of the set £ is convex (for arbitrary n)
                 (Hint:  If e and e'  belong to £,  then ke + le'  belongs to E for arbitrary non­
             negative integers к and I.  So it is enough to multiply a vector in £ by a positive 
             real.  We know how to multiply it by an integer factor; we can also (approximately) 
             multiply  it  by  a small  positive  real  using the  following trick—take our variables 
             with some small probability e, otherwise use fixed dummy values.)
                             10.11.  Dimensions and Ingleton’s inequality
                 In the previous section we described all true linear inequalities for the entropies 
             of two and three linear variables.  (Moreover, for n = 2, we described the set £ itself, 
             not only the dual set of linear inequalities that are true for all elements of £.)  For 
             n = 4, we do not have such a description; let us describe what is known.
                 Recall that we consider an n-tuple of random variables £ = £1,..., £n; by £/ (for 
             some set I C {1,..., n} of indices) we denote the tuple of variables & with i £ I.  We 
             consider the entropies H(£/) of these subtuples.  The conditional entropies H(£/ | £j) 
             are linear combinations of unconditional ones, so we do not need to consider them.
                 2In fact we used the notation I(x 1 :X2 :хз) for strings Х1,Ж2,жз and not for random variables, 
             but the definition for variables is the same.
