                              3.4.  PROPERTIES  OF  MARTIN-LÖF  RANDOMNESS                65
            not any classical proof can be effectivized.  The standard proof (since the series is 
            converging,  its tails could be made as small is needed)  does not work here,  since 
            there is no way to find an appropriate tail given e.
                Martin-Löf randomness  is  defined  for  computable  measures:  we  used  com­
            putability to prove that the largest effectively null set exists.  One could reformulate 
            the definition and call a sequence random (for an arbitrary measure ß on Г2)  if it 
            does not  belong to  any effectively null set.  For this  notion B.  Kjos-Hansen sug­
            gested the name Hippocratic randomness (and P. Gâcs suggested the more neutral 
            name blind randomness).  This is not the only existing notion of randomness with 
            respect  to non-computable measures;  we do not  go into detail here and mention 
            only that one can use uniform tests of randomness (following Levin and Gâcs, see 
            [13]).
                 78       Prove that for an upper semicomputable measure there exists the largest 
            effectively null set.  (We do not assume here that the measure of the entire Q equals 
            1;  otherwise, all upper semicomputable measures would be computable.)
                 79  Construct an example of a (non-computable) measure for which there is
            no largest effectively null set.
                {Hint:  Construct a measure that has two properties at the same time:  (1) every 
            computable sequence forms a singleton that is an effective null set (moreover, some 
            prefix already has measure zero); (2) every algorithm that pretends to generate an 
            effectively null set  either gives  an interval whose  measure is  too big or does not 
            cover some computable sequence.  This can be done by a diagonal argument where 
            we consider one by one all the computable sequences and all possible algorithms.)
                80  Show that there is a non-computable measure for which there exists the
            largest effectively null set.
                (.Hint:  Consider a non-computable measure that is very close to the uniform 
            one (say, at most twice as large and at most twice as small for all sets).)
                            3.4.  Properties of Martin-Löf randomness
                The Strong Law of Large Numbers also provides an example of an effective null 
            set  (with respect to the uniform measure).
                Theorem 32.  A set of all bit sequences that do no have limit frequency 1/2 is 
            an effectively null set with respect to the uniform measure.
                Proof.  It  is  enough  to  prove  that  for  every  rational  e  >  0  the  set  of all 
            sequences such that frequency of ones is greater than 1/2 + e infinitely many times 
            (or less than 1/2 — e infinitely many times) is an effective null set.
                Indeed,  the upper bound for the measure of this set achieved in the proof of 
            the Strong Law of Large Numbers in the previous section (Theorem 27, p. 56) is 
            effective:  the set of intervals was the set of all sufficiently long strings with large 
            frequency deviation, and its total measure was effectively bounded by a tail of the 
            converging geometric series.                                                 □
                The statement of this theorem can be reformulated as the property of individual 
            ML-random sequences:
