                                6.4.  COMPLEXITIES  AND  ORACLES               211
              Recall that we need a computable sequence /(0), /(1),... for which the lower 
           frequency of к is at least q^.  To achieve this goal, it is enough to represent the given 
           O'-lower-semicomputable semirneasure as the liminf of a computable sequence of 
           measures with rational values, i.e., to construct a two-dimensional table of rational 
           numbers
                                      Po   Pi   P°2
                                      Po   p\   P\
                                      Po   PÏ   Pi
           such that each row has only a finite number of non-zero elements, these elements 
           have sum 1, and the liminf in the kth column is at least q^.  Indeed, let us assume 
           that such a table is constructed.  Without loss of generality we may suppose that in 
           the ith row all the numbers are multiples of 1 /i (we may take approximation with 
           precision 1 /г not changing the limit).  Then the sequence /  can be constructed as 
           follows:  first  we  use  the  first  row  as  the  table of frequencies,  then switch to the 
           second row and use it for a much longer time  (to make the influence of the first 
           row negligible), then we use the third row even longer (to make the influence of the 
           first and second rows negligible), etc.
              So it remains to construct a table pj with the following property:  if some request 
           “please make qk greater than r” appears at some moment and is not canceled later, 
           then the &th column has lim inf at least q^.  This is done as follows:  in constructing 
           the nth row (at time n), we try to satisfy all current requests (that have appeared 
           and are not canceled)  according to their age  (the oldest request is treated first). 
           For each request we increase the corresponding pi- up to a given r if this is possible 
           (if it does not make the sum greater than 1).  We may assume that there are many 
           requests, and at some point the sum becomes greater than 1.  At that moment we 
          cut the last request (so the sum is 1), and this finishes the construction of nth row.
              Why does this help?  Imagine that r < qь  is true.  Then the request  “please 
          make q^ greater than r"  appears at some moment and is never canceled later.  (It 
          need not to be the first appearance of this request.)  Let us look at all requests that 
          appear before this one.  Some of them are canceled later (while others are “final”). 
          Let us wait until all these cancellations happen.  After that,  only  “true”  requests 
           (ones that are never canceled later) are older than our request, and for these true 
          requests we have r' < q^.  Their sum therefore does not exceed 1 together with our 
          request, so the requests with high priority at that time will not interfere with our 
          request.                                                              □
               212  Prove that there exists a computable sequence where the lower frequen­
          cies coincide with
              (Hint:  Combine the proof of this theorem with the solution of Problem 211.) 
              One more result from the same paper [133]:
               213 Prove that Theorem 136 remains true if we consider partial computable 
          functions /  from N to N instead of sequences:  for any partial computable function / 
          from N to N there exists a (total) computable sequence g(0), g(l),... that has the 
          same  (or bigger)  lower frequencies:  for any к the lower frequency of к in g is at 
          least its lower frequency in /(0), /(1),...  (which is defined as the limit  inferior of 
          the number of appearances of к among /(0),..., f(N  — 1) divided by N).
