          234                      8.  SOME  APPLICATIONS
                           L                                 R
                                            b
                              Figure  23.  A buffer zone of size b
          steps in the worst case.  This classical result was obtained in 1960s using so-called 
          crossing sequences; our proof is just a translation of this argument into the language 
          of Kolmogorov complexity.  (We assume that the reader is familiar with the basic 
          notions related to Turing machines; see, e.g.,  [184]).
              Consider a zone of size b on a tape of a one-tape Turing machine;  this zone 
          is  considered a buffer,  and we want to transmit information across this zone, say, 
          from left (L) to right (R); see Figure 23.
              Initially the buffer zone and R are empty (filled with blanks), and L is arbitrary. 
          We give an upper bound for the complexity of R after t steps.  The upper bound 
          is  (t \ogm)/b + O(logt) where m is the number of states that our Turing machine 
          has and b is the width of the buffer zone.  Informally the argument is quite simple: 
          each state of the Turing machine carries logm bits of information, and during one 
          computation step this information can be moved to the neighbor cell, so moving it 
          at the distance b requires b times more time.
              Now we have to convert this intuitive explanation into a formal argument.
              Theorem  152.  Let M  be  a  Turing machine  that has m  states.  Then  there 
          exists  a  constant c  such  that for any b  and for any  computation that starts  with 
          an  empty  buffer zone  of size b  and an  empty  tape  on  the  right  of the  buffer zone 
          the  complexity  of the  contents  R(t)  of the  right part  of the  tape  after t  steps  of 
          computation does not exceed
                                    t logm + 4 logt + с.
                                       Г
              P roof.  Let  us  consider  some  line  between cells  inside  the  buffer  zone  as  a 
          border, and let us write down the state of M when it crosses the border from left 
          to right  (as was done in the time of the Iron Curtain).  The sequence of states is 
          called the  crossing sequence.  Knowing the crossing sequence, we can reconstruct 
          the behavior of M  abroad  (on the right of the border)  not using the contents of 
          the tape on the left.  Indeed, we should artificially put the machine into the first 
          state of the crossing sequence and let it go abroad.  When M returns back, we put 
          it  in the second state of the crossing sequence and let it go abroad again.  In this 
          way we correctly reconstruct the abroad behavior of the machine (since it does not 
          remember anything except its state when crossing the border).  In particular,  at 
          some moment t' the tape on the right of the buffer zone contains R(t).  Note that 
          t! may be different from t since we do not take into account the time M spends on 
          the left  of the border,  but  t'  cannot  exceed t.  Therefore,  to reconstruct  R(t)  we 
          need to know the crossing sequence, t',  and the distance between the border and 
          iü-zone.  So there exists a constant  c  (depending on M but not on b and t)  such 
          that for any crossing sequence S and any b and t we have
                              C(R(t)) ^ l(S) logm + 41ogt + c.
