                                   12.12.  MINIMAL  SUFFICIENT STATISTICS                    395
            let M be the set of all triples that satisfy these inequalities: we know then that a 
            winning strategy in our game exists.  (Note that for small r we get the conditions 
            p < 2n and p + q < 3n that are true for points in G.)
                 Now we apply this winning strategy against  the following  blind  strategy for 
            the  adversary  (blind  means  that  he  does  not  look  at  our  moves).  He  declares 
            a  2n-bit  string  of complexity  less  than  2n —  1  to  be  bad;  for each  2n-bit  string 
            В  all  the  strings  that  have  conditional  complexity  less  than  n — 2  given  В  are 
            declared bad for B.  Also for each triple (p,q,r)  the corresponding player from the 
            adversary team declares strings of small conditional complexity as r- or p-simple 
            for the corresponding threshold r or p.
                 Then  both  players  follow  some  computable  strategies,  so  the  game  is  com­
            putable, and we need only to know n to start its simulation.  We cannot effectively 
            find when the limit state is reached,  but it will happen at some moment.  In this 
            state there is a pair (A, В)  of strings guaranteed by the winning condition.  Let us 
            show that these two strings satisfy the statement of the theorem.
                The length of both strings A and В is 2?г; the complexity is 271 + 0(1) (it cannot 
            be less since otherwise the string would be declared bad).  Since we declare at most 
            2n  different  strings  A  as  simple  given  В,  we  have  C{A\B)  ^  n + 0 (log77.).  On 
            the other hand, the complexity C(A \ B) cannot be less than n — 0(1), otherwise A 
            would be declared bad for B.
                Let  B'  be a ç-bit  string such  that  C(B'\B)  <  r.  We may assume that r  is 
            much smaller than n,  say,  r  <  n/2  (otherwise the  term  0 (r)  in  the  right-hand 
            side makes the statement of the theorem trivial).  So the inequality for 2n + r on 
            the  previous  page  (the  second  one  in  the  list  of three  inequalities  after  (**))  is 
            true.  Therefore,  for every p that satisfies the first  and the third inequalities,  the 
            complexity C(A\B')  exceeds p.  So for every pair  (p, q)  from the light-grey area 
            (Figure 51)  that  is 0(r + log7r)-far from O,  there is no B'  of length  q such that 
            C(B' IB) <C t and C{A I 7T ) <C p.  That is exactly what we needed to show.
                Theorem 237 is proven.                                                        □
                Let  us  now  give  another  proof of the  same  statement  using  a  probabilistic 
            argument.  It  follows almost  the same scheme as the game proof above,  but  has 
            several important differences.  First, we do not wait until our adversary makes his 
            moves, but we make all our moves at the beginning of the game.  Second, we do not 
            describe the winning moves explicitly—we just show that a random choice provides 
            a winning strategy with positive probability.
                Let  us  first  make  a  technical  remark:  Under  these  assumptions  we  may  as­
            sume without loss of generality that both players always fully use their quotas for 
            bad/simple strings (adding strings is always to the player’s advantage).
                Now we can start the argument, explaining its relation to the game version in 
            parentheses.  Our strategy is now represented by some mapping
                                            U : B2n x B M  B2n
            (the values of U (В, X ) for a given В and all possible X correspond to strings simple 
            for В in the game argument).  Assume that some finite set M of integer triples is 
            fixed and for each triple (p, q, r) e PI two mappings
                                           Vp.q,r : B2n xBr ^B ?
