             182                          5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
                 Recently M. Hoyrup found that this statement remains true for the so-called 
             layerwise computable mappings.  This class contains all computable almost every­
             where defined mappings and looks like the right generalization making the proof 
             balanced and natural.  Still we restrict ourselves to the classical case of computable 
             mappings in this book and refer the interested reader to the exposition in [15] for 
             the general case.
                 Proof.  First,  let  us  prove  that  the  /-image  of a  /л-random  sequence  и  is 
             infinite.  If this  is  not  the  case  and  /(cu)  is  a finite string  z,  consider  all  infinite 
             sequences и such that f(iv) = z, i.e., the /-preimage of the set Ez \ (Ezo U Ezi).
                 The preimage of ftz  is  an  effectively  open  set  (the  union  of an  enumerable 
             set  of intervals),  and  the  preimage  of  Ezo U Ezi  is  another  effectively  open  set 
             that is a subset of the first one.  To get the contradiction,  we have to prove that 
             the preimage of the difference (=the difference of the preimages) does not contain 
             random sequences.  This is a special case of the following general statement.
                 Lemma 1.  Let p be a computable measure on ft, and letU с V be two effectively 
             open sets such that p(V \ U) = 0.  Then V \U  is an effectively null set  (=does not 
             contain random sequences).
                 Proof.  It is enough to consider one interval I in the set V (and replace U by 
             its intersection with I).  Enumerating the intervals that form the set U, we cover 
             more and more points in I.  By continuity the measure of the covered part converges 
             to the measure of the interval I (since V \ U has zero measure).  Therefore, we can 
             wait until the remaining part of I has measure less than e for any given e and find 
             a cover of I \ U by a (finite) family of intervals with small total measure.
                 Lemma 1 is proven (and we did not use that V is effectively open; the same is 
             true for every open set V).
                 To finish the proof of (a) we have to show that the image f(<w) of a /л-random 
             sequence w cannot be an infinite but not z/-random sequence.  Indeed, assume that 
             that  f(uj)  is  infinite  but  does  not  form  an  effectively  z/-null  set.  The  preimages 
             of the intervals that cover f(<w)  cover cj,  and we get  an effectively open set that 
             contains и and has small measure (recall that the /л-measure of the preimage of an 
            effectively open set is equal to the z/-measure of the set itself).  The statement (a) 
             is proven.
                  185       Prove a quantitative version of this statement:  The expectation-bounded 
            deficiency  of  the  sequence  f(cv)  with  respect  to  measure  v  is  bounded  by  the 
            expectation-bounded deficiency of и with respect to /л plus  a constant  that  de­
            pends on the measures and the mapping but not on u.  (In this problem we use the 
            randomness deficiency for infinite sequences as defined in Section 3.5.)
                 Let us now prove the statement (b) using the notion of deficiency (for finite se­
            quences, as defined on p. 177 using a priori complexity).  Assume that the sequence т 
            is ML-random with respect to the measure Q.  This means that the deficiencies of 
            its prefixes are bounded (by a constant).  Then we apply the following lemma that 
            can be considered as the finitary version of statement (b).
                 Lemma 2.  Let и be a string such that iy(ftu) > 0.  Then there exists a string w 
             such that и   f(w)  (u is a prefix of f(u>))  and dß(w) ^ dv(u) + 0 (1).
                 (The constant hidden in 0(1) may depend on /, /л, and v but not on гл; dß and 
            dv denote the corresponding deficiencies.)
