        418              13.  INFORMATION AND LOGIC
           Theorem  247.  For some positive 5  there  exist two sequences  of quadruples 
        än,bn,cn,dn  and an,bn,cn,dn  of strings of lengths 0 (n) such that the complexity 
        of the  problem  (än  —>■  cn)  Л  (bn  —>  dn)  exceeds  the  complexity  of the problem 
        (an —> c„)A (bn —>■ dn) at least by 5n.  On the other hand, the difference between the 
        complexities of strings än,bn,cn,dn  and the complexities of strings an,bn,cn,dn is 
        at most O(logn),  and the same thing holds not only for strings themselves but also 
        for all their pairs,  triples,  and the quadruple.
          Proof.  Geometric version.  We start with the following observation.  For the 
        quadruple än,bn,cn, dn (from the statement of the theorem) both lower bounds from 
        Problem 342 for complexity of (a —> c) A (b —> d)  must  be strict:  The difference 
        between the complexity of (ân —> cn) A (bn —>■ dn) and both lower bounds must be 
        more than 6n.  We will first exhibit such a quadruple.  Then we will find another 
        quadruple with  the  same  complexities  (of its  components,  their  pairs,  etc.),  for 
        which this difference is o(n).
          We use the same geometric arguments as in the construction of words whose 
        mutual  information  cannot  be represented  as  a string  (see  page  357).  Consider 
        the three-dimensional affine linear space over the field of cardinality 2n.  We will 
        consider lines and planes in that space.  The number of points in the space is 23n, 
        the number of lines is about 24n:  every line can be identified by its arbitrary two 
        different points, there are about 26n of pairs of different points and every line can 
        be represented in  about  22n  different ways  by  a pair  of its points.  The number 
        of planes is about 23n:  every plane can be identified by three different points, the 
        number of triples of different points is about  29n, and every plane has 22n points 
        and hence has about 26n triples of different points.  Let (a, b) be any random pair of 
        intersecting lines, c their common point, and d the (unique) plane containing both 
        lines à, b.
          Then C(ä, b) — 7n (with logarithmic accuracy).  It is not hard to check that for 
        the quadruple à, b, c, d both lower bounds from Problem 342 are equal to n (with 
        accuracy O(logn)).
          Let us show that
                         C((ä —>■ с) Л (b —>■ d)) ^ 1.5n
        (with precision O(logn)).
          Let 7 be a solution to the problem  (â —> c) A (b ->  d).  Then 7 is a pair of 
        programs {a, ß) such that a transforms ä into c and ß transforms b into d.  Let S 
        stand for the set of all pairs of different intersecting lines a, b such that the program 
        a transforms a into the common point of a and b and the program ß transforms b 
        into the plane containing both a and b.  For any given triple (a, ß, n) we are able 
        to generate all elements of S.  Since the pair  (à, b)  is in S, we can deduce that
                        7n ^ C(ä, b) < C(7) + log IS I
        (with accuracy O(logn)).  Thus it suffices to show the upper bound 0(25,5n)  for 
        the cardinality of S.  This bound is a direct corollary from the following lemma.
          Lemma.  Assume that we are given a pair of functions (/, g) such that the first 
        function maps every line to a point on that line and the second function maps every 
        line to a plane containing that line.  Let the set S consist of all pairs of lines (a, b) 
        such that the point f(a) belongs also to b, and the plane g(b) also contains a.  Then 
        S contains at most 0(25,5n) pairs.
