                           INTRODUCTION               467
       means that we consider a uniform probability distribution on ft where for each ball 
       Qx the probability to get an element of Qx is equal to its volume.
          Our goal is to specify a well-defined subset of Q that could be considered as 
       the set of all random sequences.  Traditional probability theory cannot help here; 
       even the question can hardly be stated in its language.  In a paradoxical way, the 
       notion  of algorithm  helps.  It  may  sound  strange:  the  notion  of randomness  is 
       defined in terms of the notion of algorithm, which is a deterministic procedure that 
       has nothing to do with randomness,  but it is the case.  All known definitions of 
       randomness for individual objects  (in our case—individual binary sequences)  are 
       based on the theory of algorithms in some way.
          We may start by trying to  identify a characteristic  property that  intuitively 
       should be possessed by all random sequences, and then use this property (specified 
       rigorously) as a formal definition of randomness.
          So, what properties could be reasonably expected from a randomly chosen bit 
       sequence?
          First of all, the limit frequency should exist in such a sequence.  For the simplest 
       case of a fair coin this means that the fraction of zeros (as well as the fraction of ones) 
       in the n-bit prefix of the sequence should converge to 1/2 as n goes to infinity.  This 
       property can be called frequency stability.  Moreover, the same property should hold 
       not only for the sequence itself, but also for every its reasonably chosen subsequence.
          Second,  a randomly chosen sequence is expected to be  chaotic.  This means 
       that  it  has  a  complex structure  and  cannot  have  a  reasonable  description.  The 
       psychological difference between the perception of strings  (I),  (II)  and  (III),  (IV) 
       can be explained,  as Kolmogorov suggested,  by the fact that strings  (I)  and  (II) 
       have no short description while (III) and (IV) have a regular structure and can be 
       described easily.
          Third, a randomly chosen sequence should be typical, in the sense that it be­
       longs to any reasonable majority.
          Finally,  it should be unpredictable.  This means that making bets against this 
       sequence,  trying to guess its  terms,  we cannot win systematically,  and  no clever 
       strategy could help us.
          Of course, these wordings are vague.  One should specify the meaning of word 
       “reasonable”  that  occurs  in  the  explanations  of frequency stability,  chaoticness, 
       and  typicalness,  as  well  of the  words  “description”  and  “strategy”.  Theory  of 
       algorithms can be used to convert these descriptions into formal definitions, and we 
       get four rigorously defined properties:  frequency stability,  chaoticness,  typicalness, 
       and unpredictability.  Each of them can be considered as some  “algorithmic face of 
       randomness”  and can to some extent pretend to be a mathematical definition of 
       randomness.  In this way we get four well-defined classes of sequences that could 
       compete for the title of the  “true class of random sequences”  though each has its 
       strong and weak points.
          In the following exposition our goal is two-fold:  (1) to give rigorous definitions 
       for  the  four  properties  mentioned  above  and  therefore  to  define  four  classes  of 
       sequences;  (2) to state (currently known) relations between these properties (and, 
       therefore, between the corresponding classes of sequences).
