                   INTRODUCTION
              What is this book about?
               What is Kolmogorov complexity?
       Roughly  speaking,  Kolmogorov  complexity  means  “compressed  size”.  Pro­
     grams like zip, gzip, bzip2, compress, rar, arj, etc., compress a file (text, image, 
     or some other data) into a presumably shorter one.  The original file can then be 
     restored by a “decompressing”  program (sometimes both compression and decom­
     pression  are performed by the same program).  Note that we consider here only 
     lossless compression.
       A file that  has a regular structure can be compressed significantly.  Its com­
     pressed size  is  small  compared  to  its  length.  On  the other  hand,  a file without 
     regularities can hardly be compressed, and its compressed size is close to its origi­
     nal size.
       This explanation is very informal and contains several inaccuracies—both tech­
     nical and more essential.  First, instead of files (sequences of bytes) we will consider 
     binary strings  (finite sequences of bits,  that is,  of zeros and ones).  The length of 
     such  a string is  the number of symbols in it.  (For example,  the string  1001  has 
     length 4, and the empty string has length 0.)
       Here are the more essential points:
        •  We consider only decompressing programs; we do not worry at all about 
         compression.  More specifically,  a decompressor is any algorithm  (a pro­
         gram) that receives a binary string as an input and returns a binary string 
         as  an  output.  If a decompressor  D  on  input  x  terminates  and  returns 
         string y,  we  write  D(x)  —  y  and  say  that  x  is  a  description  of y  with 
         respect to D.  Decompressors are also called description modes.
        •  A description mode is not required to be total.  For some x, the compu­
         tation D(x) may never terminate and therefore produces no result.  Also 
         we do not put any constraints on the computation time of D:  on some 
         inputs the program D may halt only after an extremely long time.
       Using recursion theory terminology, we say that a description mode is a partial 
     computable (=partial recursive) function from E to E, where E = {0,1}* stands for 
     the set of all binary strings.  Let us recall that we associate with every algorithm D 
     (whose inputs and outputs are binary strings) a function d computed by D; namely, 
     d(x) is defined for a string x if and only if D halts on x, and d(x) is the output of 
     D on x.  A partial function from E to E is called computable if it is associated with 
     (=computed by) some algorithm D.  Usually we use the same letter to denote the 
     algorithm and the function it computes.  So we write D(x) instead of d(x) unless it 
     causes a confusion.
       Assume that a description mode (a decompressor) D is fixed.  (Recall that D is 
     computable according to our definitions.)  For a string x consider all its descriptions,
                      i
