                                9.12.  NON-MONOTONIC  SELECTION  RULES                  291
                               9.12.  Non-monotonie selection rules
                Up to now we considered selection rules that keep  the  ordering of terms  in 
            the  input sequence  (read  it  from  left to  right).  However,  this  restriction can be 
            relaxed in a natural way.  Such a relaxation was suggested by Kolmogorov in  [77] 
            and independently by D. Loveland in [106,  107].
                Let us explain informally how it is done.  Imagine that a casino outsources the 
            coin tossing to some producer of random bits who writes these bits on paper cards 
            and puts the cards on a table face down.  The gambler may then ask to reveal some 
            bit, then the corresponding card is turned over.  Also the gambler may select some 
            bit that is not revealed yet;  then the corresponding card is also turned over,  and 
            the bit written on it is added to the subsequence.
                More formally this class of selection rules can  be described  as  follows.  The 
            cards  (and  corresponding  bits)  are  indexed  by  natural  numbers.  The  selection 
            rule is determined by a pair of functions F and G.  The function F maps binary 
            strings to natural numbers and says which bit should be revealed at the next step 
            (depending on the  bits  already  revealed).  We  assume  that  the  values  of F  on 
            every two compatible bit strings  (one is a prefix of the other)  are different.  This 
            guarantees that the same bit is never requested again.  The second function, G, is 
            also defined on binary strings and has values in {0,1}.  The value 1 means that the 
            bit chosen by F is selected (and becomes the next bit of the output subsequence); 
            the value 0 means that it is observed but not selected.
                According to this description, for every two partial functions F (that satisfies 
            the condition above) and G, we define the selection rule Sf,g '•  £ as follows.
            First we consider a (finite or infinite) sequence of integers no, Щ,... where
                            n0 = F{A),  ni = F(cjno),  n2 = F(cjnocjni),  ...
            (the construction stops when the next value of F is undefined).  The condition for 
            F guarantees that all щ are different.
                Then we select the terms coni  for which the value of G on cjnocjni • • -Ь0П1_Х  is 
            defined and equal to 1, and, moreover, the values of G on all prefixes of this string 
            are  defined.  The  corresponding  usni  (in  order  of increasing  i)  form  the  output 
            subsequence           (We call it a subsequence though usually subsequences are
            defined as monotonie subsequences, keeping the ordering of the initial sequence.)
                The selection rules Sptc that correspond to computable partial functions F and 
            G are called Kolmogorov-Loveland admissible selection rules.  A sequence cj € Q is 
            called Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random, or Kolmogorov-Loveland stochastic, if 
            every Kolmogorov-Loveland admissible rule selects a balanced (or finite) sequence.
                We consider mainly the case of the uniform measure, but a similar definition 
            can be given for Bernoulli measure Bp (independent trials with success probability 
            P)-
                The following simple (though unexpected) observation was made by W. Merkle 
            in [119]:
                Theorem  191.  Restricting the class of selection rules and requiring F  and G 
            to be total,  we get the same class of Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random sequences.
                PROOF.  Assume that some selection rule      applied to some sequence cj se­
            lects an infinite unbalanced subsequence.  Let us split the selected subsequence into
