                       14.3.  TWO-PART  DESCRIPTIONS  437
            •  The strangeness of strings x and y can be very different even if C(x\ у) « 0 
             and C(y\x)  ~ 0 at the same time.  (Indeed,  if Z  >  C(x) + 0(\ogC(x)), 
             then the shortest description for a string x is random and is not strange 
             even if x were.)
               However,  if x  and y  correspond to each other under a simple com­
             putable bijection, this is not possible (see the next problem).
          354   Assume that x and y correspond to each other under a bijection computed 
       by a program of complexity t.  Prove that if x G Sij, then y G Si+o(t)j-
          Recall that there is a simple computable bijection that maps a string x to a 
       string y if and only if the total complexity of each of those strings conditional to 
       the other one is negligible (see Problem 31 on p. 36).
          By very similar arguments as those used to prove Theorem 254, we can show 
       that kn (and also mn from Theorem 15 (p. 25)) for different n are closely related:
          355   Prove that for all n' < n the string kn>  (i.e., the binary expansion of the 
       number kn> ) is equivalent to the length n' prefix of the string kn.  (Two strings x,y 
       are called equivalent if both conditional complexities C(x | y), C(y \ x) are O(logn)). 
       Show that strings mn have a similar property.
          (Hint:  (See[203].)  For kn  we have to show that  given any number T larger 
       than B(n — s) we are able to find all strings of complexity at most n except fewer 
       than 2s  such strings,  and the other way around.  Given such a T,  start  an enu­
       meration of strings of complexity at most n and output them in portions of size 
       2s.  After T steps  all the  complete portions will  appear.  Indeed,  the  number of 
       steps needed to output all complete portions can be computed from the number of 
       complete portions which has at most n — s bits.  The number of remaining strings 
       is fewer than 2s.  In the opposite direction, given a list of strings of complexity at 
       most n except fewer than 2s such strings, we again start an enumeration of strings 
       of complexity at most n and wait until all the given strings appear in that enumer­
       ation.  Let T denote the number of steps when it happens.  Then any number t > T 
       has complexity at least n — s.  Indeed, if C(t) < n — s, then consider 2s first strings 
       outside the list.  Each of them has complexity at most n, a contradiction.  For mn 
       the arguments are entirely similar.)
          The next result generalizes the statement of Problem 39 on p. 40:  If a string x 
       has many descriptions of size k, it has shorter descriptions.  Now we speak about 
       (i * ^-descriptions of x, i.e., finite sets containing x that have complexity at most 
       i  and cardinality at most 2À
          Theorem 255.  Assume that a string x has at least 2k sets as (i*j)-descriptions. 
       Then x has some (i * (j — k))-description and even some ((г — к) * j)-description.
          In this statement we omit (as usual) the logarithmic error terms (the parameters 
       should  be  increased  by  0(log(? + j + k))).  The word  “even”  reminds  us  about 
       Theorem 252 that allows us to convert (г—fc)*j-descriptions to i*(j—^-descriptions.
          PROOF.  The first (simpler) statement is an easy consequence of the arguments 
       used in the proof of Theorem 254.  Let us enumerate all sets A of complexity at 
       most i and size at most  2J  and see which strings belong to 2k  or more sets  (are 
       covered with multiplicity at least 2k).  We have at most 2*+J)2k such elements, i.e., 
       2г+j-k^ ancj these elements can be enumerated in at most 2l groups (each new set A 
       may create one new group).  So it remains to recall statement (c) of Theorem 254.
