         434               14.  ALGORITHMIC STATISTICS
         a sequence of sets of correct size and show that one of the sets will have the required 
         properties.  If this sequence of sets is not very long, the complexity of its elements 
         is bounded.  Here are the details.
           We start by taking the first 2tj strings of length n as our first set A.  Then we 
         start enumerating all finite sets of complexity at most j and of size at most 2*-»  for 
         all j — 0,..., k, and get an enumeration of all Sj.  Recall that x is the first element 
         that does not belong to all such Sj. So, when a new set of complexity at most j and 
         of size at most 2tj appears, all its elements are included in Sj and removed from A. 
         Until all elements of A are deleted, we have nothing to worry about, since A covers 
         the minimal remaining element.  If (and when)  all elements of A are deleted,  we 
         replace A by a new set that consists of first 2li undeleted (yet) strings of length n. 
         Then we wait again until all the elements of this new A are deleted.  If (and when) 
         this happens, we take 2li first undeleted elements as new A, etc.
           The construction guarantees the correct size of the sets and that one of them 
         covers x (the minimal non-deleted element).  It remains to estimate the complexity 
         of the sets we construct in this way.
           First, to start the process that generates these sets, we need to know the length 
         n  (actually something logarithmically close to n)  and the sequence to,...,tk-  In 
         total we need m + O(logn) bits.  To specify each version of A, we need to add its 
         version number.  So we need to show that the number of different A’s that appear 
         in the process is at most 2г or slightly bigger.
           A new set A is created when all the elements of the old A are deleted.  Let us 
         distinguish two types of changes of A: the first changes after a new set of complexity 
        j appears with j ^ i and the remaining changes.  The changes of the first type can 
         happen only 0 (2г) times since there are at most 0 (2г) sets of complexity at most 
         i.  Thus it suffices to bound the number of changes of the second type.  For those 
         changes all the elements of A are removed due to elements of Sj with j > i.  We 
         have at most 2J+L elements in Sj. Since tj +j ^ U + i, the total number of deleted 
        elements only slightly exceeds 2ti+l, and each set A consists of 2li elements, so we 
        get about 2г changes of A.                              □
            351 Prove that we cannot strengthen Theorem 253 by requiring the distance 
         between the sets Px and T be O(logn) (and not O(logn) + 0{m)).
           (Hint:  The number of strings of length n + O(logn) is much smaller than the 
         number of sets T that satisfy the conditions of the theorem.)
            352 Prove that there is no algorithm that, given any x, will find the boundary
        of the set Px with accuracy 0(\ogl(x)).
           Stronger results on non-computability of the boundary of Px can be found in 
        the paper [203].
           Theorem 253 shows that the value of the complexity C(x) does not completely 
        describe the properties of x\ different strings x of the same complexity can have dif­
        ferent boundary curves of Px.  This curve can be considered an infinite-dimensional 
        characterization of x.
           To understand this characteristic better, the following notation is useful.  The 
        classification  of strings  according  to  their  complexity  can  be  represented  by  an 
        increasing sequence  of sets  So  C  S\  C  S2 ■ ■ ■,  where  Si  is  the  set  of all  strings 
        having complexity at most i.  The sets Si are enumerable (uniformly in г); the size 
        of Si is 0(2г).
