                       3.3.  EFFECTIVELY  NULL  SETS   61
          (Hint:  We can transform any approximation to the approximation from below 
       losing only factor 2 in precision.)
          74  Prove that the sum, difference, product, and quotient of two computable
       reals are computable reals.
          75 Prove that e (the base of natural logarithms) and тг are computable. 
          76 Prove that elementary functions  (roots,  sine,  exponent,  logarithm,  etc.)
       preserve  computability,  i.e.,  have  computable  values  for  computable  arguments. 
       (We assume, of course, that the base is computable in the cases of logarithms and 
       exponents.)
          A measure p on Q is computable if measures of all intervals are computable 
       reals, and, moreover, we can effectively find an approximation algorithm for p(Llx) 
       given X.  Here is a formal definition:
          Definition.  A measure p on the set Q is  computable if there exists a com­
       putable function {x,e) !->■ a(x,e), defined for all strings x and all positive rational 
       numbers e, such that
                          \ß(üx) -  a(x, e)| < £
       for all x and e.
          This definition does not assume that the measure of the entire space Q equals 1, 
       but in fact we will use it only in this case (i.e., for probability distributions).
          Theorem 28.  Let p be a computable measure on fl.  Then there exists a largest 
       effectively  null  set  with  respect  to  p.  In  other words,  the  union  of all  effectively 
       p-null sets is an effectively p-null set.
          PROOF.  As we have seen, for each regular function x we get a corresponding 
       effectively null set.  Since there is countably many regular functions, we get count­
       ably many effectively null sets, and their union contains every effectively null set. 
       Therefore, the union of all effectively null sets is a null set.  (When speaking about 
       null sets and effectively null sets, we have in mind measure p.)
          However, we need more:  we have to prove that this union is an effectively null 
       set.  To  achieve  this  goal,  we  enumerate  all  regular  functions  and  then  use  the 
       effective version of the theorem that says that the countable union of null sets is a 
       null set.
          For technical reasons it is convenient to change a bit the definition of a regular 
       function.  Namely, we now say that a computable function x(-, •) is regular if all the 
       finite partial sums of the series
                    p(x(e, 0)) + p(x(e, 1)) + p(x(£, 2)) + • • •
       are less than e (note the strict inequality).  Here p(x) stands for p(iïx).  This makes 
       our requirements for regular functions  a bit stronger  (if all partial sums are less 
       than e, the sum of the series does not exceed e, but the reverse is not always true). 
       However, the notion of the effectively null set is not affected, since we always can 
       replace e by (say) e/2.
          In the sequel the regular functions are understood in this modified sense  (in 
       fact, regular functions are used only locally in the proof of the Martin-Löf theorem).
          The following lemma allows us to enumerate all regular functions.
          Lemma.  There exists a computable (partial) function
                          {q,e,i) i-» X(q,e,i)
