                                          9.4.  VILLE’S  EXAMPLE                          267
                Theorem 170.  Let S be a total computable strategy of this type,  and let ui be a 
            Mises-Church random sequence.  Then the gain of S playing against ui  is o(n)  after 
            n steps.
                P r o o f.  Assume that the strategy may have only values 1 and —1.  Then it is 
            essentially equivalent to guessing the next bit.  We already know that the fraction 
            of successful guesses  tends  to  1/2,  and  this  means that  the  average gain per  bit 
            tends to 0.
                Now consider more general strategies whose values  are rational numbers be­
            tween — 1 and 1 with denominator к (i.e., multiples of 1 /к), for some fixed k.  Every 
            strategy S of this type can be considered as an average of 2к strategies with values 
            — 1  and  1  only,  and the gain of S after n bits is at most en,  if n is large enough. 
            We know that for each of them the gain is o(n), so the average is also o(n).
                Finally, we consider an arbitrary strategy with rational values.  For each e > 0 
            we need to prove that the gain of S after n bits is at most en, if n is large enough. 
            So let us fix some e.  Choose к in such a way that  1/k < e, and approximate S by 
            a strategy S' whose values are multiples of 1/k (taking the closest multiple).  The 
            approximation error is bounded by e/2.  For S' we already know that its gain is 
            o(n), so it is less than (e/2)n for large enough n, and the difference between gains 
            of S and S' is at most (e/2)n.                                                 □
                Here is one more property of Mises-Church random sequences.  (It was men­
            tioned by Mises as one of the basic property of Kollektivs.)
                Theorem 171.  Applying a Church-admissible selection rule to a Mises-Church 
            random sequence,  we get either a finite sequence or a Mises-Church random one.
                P r o o f.  It is easy to see that the composition of two Church-admissible selec­
            tion rules is a selection rule of the same type.  If we select some terms (by looking at 
            the previous ones) into a subsequence and then again select some terms of these sub­
            sequence looking at the previous ones, the resulting decision for some uji  (whether 
            it will survive the first and the second selection or not) is determined by ojo • • • u>i_i. 
            (And the composition of two computable selection rules is computable.)         □
                Later (Section 9.12, p. 291) we consider more general selection rules (non-mono­
            tonic ones) and modify accordingly the notion of randomness (the so-called Mises- 
            Kolmogorov-Loveland randomness or Kolmogorov-Loveland stochasticity).  This 
            new class of selection rules will  not be closed under composition,  and,  moreover, 
            the  corresponding notion  of randomness  in  not  closed  under selection rules  (see 
            Theorem 203, p. 307.)
                We have not discussed yet the relation between Martin-Löf randomness and 
            Mises-Church randomness.  As we will see soon,  they differ,  and  not  all Mises- 
            Church random sequences  are  Martin-Löf random.  But  first  let  us  make  some 
            remarks about Mises’ definition.
                                         9.4.  Ville’s example
                We have seen already that for every countable family of sets Ri there exists a 
            sequence that satisfies the frequency stability property with respect to all selection 
            rules Sri  (each of these rules selects a finite or balanced subsequence).  Indeed, the 
            set  of sequences with these properties has measure 1.  This is an existence proof;
