                                    FACE FOUR:  UNPREDICTABILITY                      477
               In other words, we define the unpredictability of some sequence in terms of a 
            game where Casino uses that sequence and Player makes bets against that sequence, 
            i.e.,  on  the values of terms of that sequence not yet revealed.  Player and Casino 
            initially have some amount of money.  Casino also has some bit sequence, and Player 
            does not know it.  Player can then make bets about some bits of that sequence, not 
            necessarily in the monotone order and not necessarily about all bits; some terms of 
           the sequence may be skipped.
               We can imagine that bits are written on cards that lie on an infinite table face 
           down,  so  Player  does not see the bits:  she sees only an infinite sequence of card 
           backs.  At each move, Player points to some card, makes a prediction about the bit 
           on that card and declares the amount of her bet.  Then the card is turned over.  If 
           the prediction is correct,  Casino pays that amount to Player;  if the prediction is 
           wrong, Player loses her money (i.e., pays that amount to Casino).  Player wins if 
           she managed to make Casino bankrupt.  Of course, if Player has unlimited credit 
           resources, she can always win by doubling the bets until her guess becomes correct. 
           But we assume that Player has no credit line, so the amount of the bet should not 
           exceed her current capital.
               A sequence is called predictable if there is a strategy for Player that allows her 
           to win against that sequence.  This means that for the arbitrarily large initial capital 
           of Casino, Casino will nevertheless become bankrupt if Player uses this strategy.  A 
           sequence is called unpredictable if it is not predictable.
               More formally the game may be described as follows.  We consider an infinite 
           sequence of zeros and ones:
                                         a = (ai, й2, аз,...).
           At each move Player creates a triple
                                               (п,г,и),
           where
                                 ne N,  г G {0,1},   u G Q,  v ^ 0;
           here,  as  usual,  N  is  the  set  of natural  numbers,19  and  Q  is  the  set  of rational 
           numbers.  The meaning of this triple is the following:  n is the number of the bit 
           on which the bet is made, i is the predicted value of that bit, and the non-negative 
           rational number v is the amount of the bet.  The moves are performed sequentially, 
           starting from the first one;  the triple that represents the kth move is denoted by 
            (n(k),i(k),v(k)).  (More formally, moves are triples of the described form.)
               Player’s capital before the kth. move is denoted by V(k — 1).  Without loss of 
           generality we may assume that the initial capital of Player equals 1, i.e., P(0) = 1.
               After each move, Player’s capital changes according to the following rules:
                  •  if i(k) = an(fc)  (Player made a correct guess), then 
                    V(k) = V(k-l)+v(k);
                              n(k)  (Player made an incorrect guess), then 
                  •  if i{k) Ф a
                    V{k) = V{k-l)-v{k).
               Two additional remarks are needed.
               19Sometimes 0 is considered as a natural number (logicians and computability experts usually 
           do this), sometimes not—in this appendix we follow the second convention and do not consider 0 
           as a natural number.
