                                               CHAPTER 12
                   Multisource algorithmic information theory
                               12.1.  Information transmission requests
                 Multisource information theory deals with information transmission in a net­
             work.  Such a network includes information sources (one or many), the destinations 
             (one or many) where information should be delivered, and channels that are used 
             for transmission;  some  (or all)  channels may have limited capacity.  The classical 
             Shannon approach considers sources as random variables and is well developed.  It 
             tries to find conditions that make some information transmission requests feasible.
                 Similar questions could (and should) be asked for algorithmic information the­
             ory.  Let us explain this setting more formally, following [179].  Consider a directed 
            graph whose edges are channels and nodes are processors.  Some nodes (called in­
            put nodes)  get outside information;  this information should be processed  (in the 
            nodes)  and  transmitted  (via the  edges)  into  some  other  nodes,  finally  reaching 
             output nodes.
                 More formally,  an  information transmission  request  consists of the following 
            parts:
                    •  a finite acyclic directed graph;
                    •  a set of input nodes;
                    •  an input string for each input node;
                    •  a set of output nodes;
                    •  a (desired)  output string for each output node;
                    •  a non-negative integer capacity for each edge (the value +oo is also allowed 
                      and means unlimited capacity).
            To fulfill  this request,  one should write on each edge e some string whose length 
            does not exceed the capacity of edge e, in such a way that
                                            C(X|Y1,...,yt)«0
            for every node г that has incoming strings Yf,...,     and for every outgoing string 
            X in this node.  Here by incoming strings for a node we mean the strings written on 
            incoming edges and the input string for the node (if it is an input node); similarly, 
            outgoing strings are strings written on outgoing edges,  and the output string for 
            this node (if it is an output node).
                 Informally speaking, this condition means that the nodes can only process the 
            incoming information and cannot create (a non-negligible amount of)  new infor­
            mation.  As usual, the approximate equality sign (~) means that the complexity in 
            question is 0(logN), where N is the total length of all input and output strings in 
            the request.  So in fact we consider not one request but a sequence of requests with 
            increasing values of N.
                                                     367
