                                             CHAPTER 7
                Shannon entropy and Kolmogorov complexity
                                       7.1.  Shannon entropy
                Consider an alphabet A that contains к letters a\,..., a^.  We want to encode 
            each letter a* by a binary string c^.  Of course, we want all c* to be different to avoid 
            confusion.  But this is not enough if we write codewords without any separator.  For 
            example,  imagine that  letters A,  B,  and  C  are encoded  by strings  0,  1,  and  01. 
            All three codes are different, but two strings AB AB and ABC have identical codes 
            0101.  So additional precautions are needed to guarantee unique decoding.
                We want the code to allow unique decoding.  At the same time we want it to 
            be space efficient.  It  is good to  have the strings c*  as short  as possible  (without 
            violating the  unique  decoding property).  And  if we  cannot  make  all  codewords 
            short, the priority should be given to the frequent letters.  (Similar considerations 
            were taken into account when Morse code was designed.)
                7.1.1.     Codes.  Let us give formal definitions.  A  code for a ^-letter alphabet 
            A =  {ai,..., afc}  consists  of к  binary strings  Ci,..., c*,.  These strings  are called 
            codewords  (for the code considered);  letter  ai  has  encoding  Ci.  Any  А-string  (a 
            finite sequence of letters taken from A) has an encoding; to get it, we encode each 
            letter and concatenate their codes (without separators).
                A code is injective  if different letters have different codes.  A code is  uniquely 
            decodable  if every two different А-strings have different codes.  A prefix code  is a 
            code where no  codeword is a prefix of another codeword.  (This is a traditional 
            terminology; however, the more logical name prefix-free code is also used.)
                Theorem 137.  Every prefix code is uniquely decodable.
                PROOF.  The first  codeword  (the  encoding  of the  first  letter)  is  determined 
            uniquely (due to the prefix property), so we can separate it from the rest.  Then 
           the second codeword is determined, etc.                                       □
                214 Show that there exist  uniquely  decodable  codes which  are  not  prefix 
           codes.
                (Hint:  Consider a suffix code.)
                215 Construct an explicit bijection between the set of all infinite sequences
           of digits 0,1, 2 and the set of all infinite sequences of digits 0,1.
                (Hint:  Use the prefix code 0 (->• 00,  1 (->• 01, 2 (->• 1.)
                216 Consider prefix codes ci,..., Ck  (for a ^-letter alphabet)  and d\,..., di
            (for an /-letter alphabet).  Show that strings Cidj (concatenations of codewords from 
           these two codes) form a prefix code for a ^/-letter alphabet.
               Before asking which of two codes is more space efficient, we should fix frequen­
           cies of the letters.  Let pi,... ,pk be non-negative reals such that pi + • • • +pn — 1-
                                                  213
