        432              14.  ALGORITHMIC STATISTICS
                          Figure 52.  The set Px
          We will see that  movement  in  the opposite direction is not  always  possible. 
        So,  having two-part descriptions with the same total length, we should prefer the 
        one with the bigger set (since it always can be converted into others, but not vice 
        versa).
          Let us look again at the set Px for some n-bit string x\ see Figure 52.  It contains 
        the  point  (0,n)  that  corresponds  to  A  =  Bn,  the  set  of all  n-bit  strings  (with 
        logarithmic precision).  On the other side the set Px  contains the point  (C(x),0) 
        that  corresponds  to  the singleton  A —  {x}.  The boundary of Px  is some curve 
        connecting these two points, and this curve never gets into the triangle k + s ^ C(x) 
        and always goes down (when moving from left to right) with slope at least —1 or 
        more, as Theorem 252 says.
          This picture raises a natural question:  Which boundary curves are possible and 
        which are not? Is it possible, for example, that the boundary goes along the dotted 
        line  on  Figure  52?  The  answer is  positive:  take  a random string of the  desired 
        complexity and add trailing zeros to achieve the desired length.  Then the point 
        (0, C(x))  (the left end of the dotted line) corresponds to the set A of all strings of 
        the same length having the same trailing zeros.  We know that the boundary curve 
        cannot  go  down slower than with slope  —1  and that  it  should end  at  (C(x),0), 
        therefore it follows the dotted line (with logarithmic precision).
          There is a more difficult question:  Is it possible that the boundary curve starts 
        from (0, n) and goes with the slope —1 to the very end and then goes down rapidly 
        to  (C(x),0)?  (See Figure 53.)  Such a string x,  informally speaking,  would have 
        essentially only two types of statistical explanations:  a set of all strings of length n 
        (and its parts obtained by Theorem 252) and the exact description, the singleton 
        {x}.
           350   Show that such x is not  (a, ß)-stochastic if a, ß are smaller than C(x) 
        and n — 2C(x), respectively.
          It  turns out  that  not  only are these two opposite cases possible,  but  also  all 
        intermediate  curves  are  possible  (assuming  they  have  a  bounded  slope  and  are 
        simple enough), if we allow a logarithmic deviation from the prescribed curve.
