                          9.13.  CHANGE IN THE MEASURE AND RANDOMNESS             297
                        9.13.  Change in the measure and randomness
               In this section we describe a tool (suggested by M. van Lambalgen) that allows 
           us to construct Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random sequences with pathological 
           properties (not ML-random, with more ones that zeros in prefixes, etc.).
               9.13.1.    Randomness with respect to two measures.  Let us start with a 
           question that is interesting in itself:  Imagine that we change slightly the measure. 
           What happens with the class of random sequences (with respect to this measure)?
               Here are two examples of opposite types.
               Example  1.  Let  ß  be  the  uniform  Bernoulli  measure  ß  =  Вг/2.  Consider 
           another measure ß' that has independent trials with success probability 1/2 in all 
           trials except the first one where the success probability is (for example) 2/3.  It is 
           intuitively clear that the same sequences should be random with respect to both 
           measures (for all reasonable notions of randomness):  only the first trial is different, 
           and in both cases both outcomes are possible (though the probabilities are not the 
           same).  Indeed,  this happens for Martin-Löf randomness:  The effectively null sets 
           are the same  (because for every set its ^-measure and //-measure differs at most 
           by a factor of 2).
               274 Show the same result using the complexity criterion for randomness.
               275 Show that the class of computably random sequences for these two mea­
           sures is the same.
               Example 2.  Consider the uniform Bernoulli measure BXj2 and also some other 
           Bernoulli measure, say B2/3.  Is it possible that some sequence is ML-random with 
           respect  to  both  of them?  No,  because  for  a  random  sequence  with  respect  to 
           Bernoulli measure Bp the limit frequency is p, so it cannot be both 1/2 and 2/3 at 
           the same time.
               So  we come to  the  following question:  Imagine  that  two  sequences  of reals 
           PiiPi  £  (0,1)  are given.  Consider the measures for independent trials with prob­
           abilities pi  (call  it  ß)  and p[  (call  it  ß').  What  can  be said  about  the  classes of 
           ML-random sequences with respect to these two measures?  Our examples suggest 
           that if pi  and p[  are close to each other, then these classes should coincide, and if 
           Pi  and p'i differ significantly, these classes should be disjoint.
               Let us prove that this is indeed the case, assuming that p i and p[ are separated 
           from  0  and  1,  i.e.,  all  belong to  (e, 1 — e)  for  some  positive  e.  We  also  assume 
           that pi and  are computable sequences of computable real numbers (we need the 
           measures to be computable; otherwise, Martin-Löf randomness is not well defined).
              V. Vovk proved the following result [207] which is a constructive version of the 
           classical Kakutani’s theorem:
               Theorem  196.  (a)  If the sum J2(Pi ~ Pi)2  *s finite,  then the  classes  of ML- 
           random sequences with respect to ß and ß!  coincide.
               (b)  If the sum J2(Pi ~ Pi)2  *s infinite,  these classes are disjoint.
              The classical version of this result [70] says that in the first case the classes of 
           null sets coincide, and in the second case the measures are orthogonal,  i.e.,  there 
           exists a set that has probability 0 with respect to one measure and probability  1 
           with respect to the other.
