                                                  CHAPTER 14
                                       Algorithmic statistics
                            14.1.  The framework and randomness deficiency
                  Generally speaking, mathematical statistics deals with the following problem: 
             there are some experimental data, and we look for a reasonable theory that explains 
             these data (is consistent with these data).  It turns out that the notion of complexity 
             is helpful in understanding this problem.  This is a topic of algorithmic statistics.1
                  Consider the following (simplified) example.  A  “black box”, switched on, has 
             produced  a sequence  of bits,  say,  of length  106.    (This  sequence  could  also  be 
             considered as a number between 0 and 21-000,000 — 1.)  What information about the 
             internal structure of the black box could we get by analyzing this sequence?  Or, 
             at least, what conjectures about this internal structure look compatible with these 
             data?
                  Classical statistics is not well suited to this situation.  If we had information 
             from several independent copies of our device, or if we could switch on the device 
             many times (and have good reason to believe that the results are independent), or 
             if we had some probabilistic distribution that depends on a parameter and needed 
             to choose the most suitable value of this parameter—in all these cases the statistic 
             would know what to do.  But if our experiment cannot be repeated (which is not 
             uncommon in practice, by the way) and we have no a priori information about the 
             family of possible distributions, statistics does not tell us what to do.  Indeed, we 
             have a set of all 21,000,000 possible outcomes, and no structure on this set, so what 
             can we say about one specific outcome?
                  Common sense nevertheless supports some conclusions even in this case.  For 
             example, if our device produced 106 zeros, then many people would think that the 
             device is indeed very simple and can produce only zeros.  Similarly, if the sequence 
             was 010101 •• •  (alternating zeros  and ones),  people would  probably  believe that 
             the black box is a simple mechanism of a flip-flop type.  And if the sequence had 
             no visible regularities, people would probably think that the device is some kind of 
             random bit generator.  So the conclusions could be quite different, and it would be 
             interesting to give some more formal support for our common sense reasoning.
                  In the first example (a zero string) the “explanation” (hypothesis) is a singleton: 
             we  think  that  perhaps  the  device  can  produce  only  this  string.  In  the  second 
             example (and in all similar situations when the device produces a binary string x of 
             a very small complexity) the same explanation looks reasonable:  we believe that the 
             device is made just for producing this specific string x.  So the set of possibilities
                  1An alternative short introduction to this topic can be found  in  [201]  (without proofs).  A 
             more detailed  exposition that  contains  some  material  of this  chapter  but  puts  it  in  a different 
             perspective can be found in a recent survey paper [202].
                                                        425
