                                4.5.  THE  MAIN  THEOREM ON  PREFIX  COMPLEXITY                      93
             these sets are disjoint and the sum of the measures of all sets £lPi is at most 1.  The 
             lemma and Theorem 57 are proved.                                                        □
                  Theorem 57 implies that the inequality K (x) ^ l(x) + 0(1) is false (thus show­
             ing the difference between the plain complexity C and the prefix complexity К). 
             Indeed, if it were true, the series
                                                         2~ÄX)
                                                      X
             would converge.  However,  for  every n  the terms  of this series  corresponding to 
             strings  X  of length n  sum up to  1  (there are 2n  such terms  and each of them is 
             equal to 2~n).
                   99 Prove that even a weaker inequality K(x) ^ l(x) + log l(x) + 0(1) is false 
             (in other words, the difference K(x) — l(x) — logl(x) is not bounded by a constant).
                  (Hint:  Use the divergence of the harmonic series.)
                  It remains to prove the last  (and most difficult) inequality:
                  Theorem 58.
                                           K'(x) ^ — logm(x) + 0(1).
                  PROOF.  We present first a sketch of the proof.  The semimeasure m(x) is lower 
             semicomputable, so we can generate lower bounds for m(x) that converge to m(x), 
             but  no  estimates for the approximation error are given.  The larger m(x)  is,  the 
             smaller K'(x) should be, that is, the shorter description p we have to provide for x. 
             The descriptions reserved for different strings must be incompatible.  In geometric 
             terms:  for  every binary  string p we consider the  interval  Ip  formed  by  all  reals 
             whose binary expansion starts with p.  The descriptions p\ and p2 are incompatible 
             if the intervals IPl  and IP2 do not overlap.  The inequality l(p) ^ — log2 m(x) means 
             that the length of the interval Ip is at least m(x), i.e.,         ^ m(x).
                  Thus we have to assign to every string x an interval of length at least m(x) so 
             that the intervals assigned to different strings do not overlap.
                  Let  us  specify  more  carefully what  we  need.  First,  for  each  x  it  suffices  to 
             reserve an interval of the length em(x) rather than m(x), for some fixed positive e. 
             This relaxation causes the complexity to increase at most by a constant.
                  Second, we are allowed to use only properly aligned intervals, i.e., intervals Ip 
             for some binary string p.  However, given the above relaxation,  this restriction is 
             not essential.  Indeed, every interval I C  [0,1]  contains a properly aligned interval 
             that is at most four times shorter.
                  So we arrive at a problem that is quite similar to the problem considered in 
             Section 4.1.  There is a sequence of clients.  Each client asks for some space inside 
             [0,1]; a client may increase its request from time to time.  The important difference 
             is  that  now the clients  are interested not  in the total space  allocated but  in the 
             contiguous interval, and this makes our “space management” job more difficult.  To 
             compensate for this difficulty, we are allowed to reduce all the requests, multiplying 
             them by some constant e.
                  Imagine that  clients  are processes  running  on  a computer,  and  the  memory 
             manager has to allocate contiguous properly allocated memory according to their 
             requests that increase in time.  Once allocated, memory cannot be freed (and reused 
             for other process).
