                 126                                     5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
                 where  Schnorr-Levin criterion  is  considered.  But  first  we  have  to  define  mono­
                 tone complexity (Section 5.5), and this definition uses the notion of a computable 
                 mapping of the space E into itself (Section 5.4).
                       One can characterize the a priori complexity as the smallest upper semicom- 
                 putable (=enumerable from above) function that satisfies some condition,  as was 
                 done for plain complexity in Theorem 8 (p.  19) and for prefix complexity in Theo­
                 rem 62 (p. 100).  Here is the corresponding statement:
                       Theorem  80.  The function KA  is  a minimal  (up  to  an  additive  constant) 
                 upper semicomputable function к such that
                                                                        2~ k ^    ^   1
                 for any prefix-free set M  of binary strings.
                       PROOF.  Since the strings x € M are incompatible (none of them is a prefix of 
                 another one),  the corresponding sets Ea;  (of all finite and infinite sequences with 
                 prefix x) are disjoint and the sum of probabilities does not exceed 1.
                       On the other hand, let к be an upper semicomputable function that satisfies 
                 this condition.  We have to construct a lower semicomputable semimeasure that is 
                 greater that 2~k.  The latter function is lower semicomputable but is not necessarily 
                 a semimeasure;  its values on ж, ж0,  and ж1 can be unrelated.  So we need first to 
                 increase к when it is unavoidable.  Let u(x)  be the supremum of all sums of the 
                 form                                                     2~k(y)
                                                                    y£M
                 over all prefix-free M sets of extensions of ж.  It is easy to check that u(x) is indeed 
                 a lower semicomputable semimeasure and 2”^^ does not exceed a(x).                                                 □
                       11311 Let us consider functions b on binary strings with values in [0,1] that have 
                 the following property:  there exists a measure p on the tree such that b(x) ^ p($lx)-
                       (a)  Show that every semimeasure on a tree has this property.
                       (b)  Show that for every lower semicomputable function b with this property 
                 there exists a lower computable semimeasure on the tree that is an upper bound 
                 for b.
                                         5.4.  Computable mappings of type E —> E
                       In Chapter 4 we defined prefix complexity (in terms of shortest descriptions) 
                 and the a priori probability (in terms of probabilistic machines).  It turned out that 
                 it is essentially the same notion (one is the logarithm of the other).
                       In  this  chapter we  have defined the other notion of a priori probability  (the 
                 continuous one),  and a natural question arises:  Does it correspond to some nat­
                 ural notion of complexity defined in terms of descriptions?  Indeed, such a notion 
                 exists; it is called monotone complexity (though it differs slightly from the a priori 
                 complexity).  However, to give its definition (see Section 5.5 below), we first need 
                 to introduce some auxiliary notions.
                       The algorithms (machines) used in the definition of the universal semimeasure 
                 on the binary tree consist of two parts:  the random bits generator and the algorithm 
                 that  transforms the sequence of random bits into the output.  In this section we 
                 look  more closely  at  this  second  part  and  introduce the  notion  of a computable
