                           4.  A  PRIORI  PROBABILITY  AND  PREFIX  COMPLEXITY
            76
            Po.pi,... of reals: pi is the probability that the machine outputs i.  We say that the 
            probabilistic machine generates the sequence po,p\,....  Which sequences Po,P\, ■.. 
            can be obtained in this way?  There is an obvious necessary condition:  ^2pi  <  1 
            (since the machine cannot produce two different outputs).  However, this inequality 
            is not sufficient, as there are countably many randomized algorithms and uncount- 
            ably many sequences satisfying this condition.
                Let  us answer first  a simpler question.  Consider the halting probability of a 
            randomized machine without  input,  i.e.,  the  probability that  the  machine halts. 
            Which real numbers can appear as halting probabilities of probabilistic machines 
            without input?  To answer this question,  we need to recall the notion of a lower 
            semicomputable real number.
               A real  number  a  is  lower semicomputable  if it  is  the  limit  of a computable 
            non-decreasing sequence of rational numbers.
                94  Prove that if a is a computable real number  (i.e.,  there is an algorithm 
            that  for  any given rational e  >  0  computes  a rational  approximation  to  a  with 
            precision e), then a is lower semicomputable.
                (Hint:  We can construct  an increasing sequence using approximations  from 
            below.)
                95  Show that a real number a is computable if and only if both numbers a
            and —a are lower semicomputable.
               A  real  number  a  is  lower  semicomputable  if and  only  if the  set  of rational 
            numbers that are less than a is enumerable.  (It explains why lower semicomputable 
            reals are sometimes called enumerable from below.)
               Indeed,  let  us  assume that a is the limit of a non-decreasing computable se­
            quence ao < ai ^ U2 ^ • • •  of rationale.  For each i enumerate all rational numbers 
           that are less than аг.  All rational numbers less than a (and no other) will appear 
           in the enumeration.
               Conversely,  assume that we can enumerate all rational numbers that are less 
           than a.  Omitting all numbers in this enumeration that  are less than previously 
           met ones, we obtain a non-decreasing sequence whose limit is a.
               Using the notion of a lower semicomputable real, we obtain the following answer 
           to the above question:
               Theorem 44.  (a) Let M be a probabilistic machine without input.  The halting 
           probability of M is a lower semicomputable real number.
               (b)     Every lower semicomputable real is the halting probability of some proba­
            bilistic machine.
               Proof,  (a) Let pn stand for the probability that M halts within n steps.  The 
           number pn is rational:  the algorithm can toss a coin at most n times within n steps, 
           thus the halting probability is a multiple of l/2n.
               We can find pn by simulating the run of the machine for all possible outcomes 
           of the coin tossing.  The sequence Po,Pi, ■ ■ ■ is non-decreasing and its limit is equal 
           to the halting probability of M.
               (b)  Assume that  a real q is lower semicomputable.  That  is,  there is  a com­
           putable sequence go  ^  Qi  ^  52  ^  • • •  of rational  numbers  such  that  q  =  limgn. 
           We have to construct a probabilistic machine whose halting probability is equal to 
           q.  Let the machine toss a coin, and let bo,b\,b2,... be the obtained random bits. 
           Consider the real number ß — O.&0&1&2 ■ ■ • ; it is uniformly distributed in [0,1].  Let
