                               11.3.  THE  COMBINATORIAL  MEANING  OF  COMMON  INFORMATION                                   359
                 and conclude that the density of edges is bounded by 2  0-55n, so the total number 
                 of edges covered by all the rectangles, is at most
                                         2i.in  ^  2l  ln  y         X  2 _ 0.55n     2^-75n       <2^n
                 So most of the edges remain uncovered (and most of the edges have required com­
                 plexities and mutual information), so a random edge in this graph with high prob­
                 ability provides an example required by Theorem 223.
                       310 Show that every edge xy whose complexity is close to 3n can be used as
                 an example for Theorem 223).
                      (Hint:  The set of covered edges can be enumerated by a simple algorithm.)
                      This construction gives a nice alternative proof of Theorem 223,  but there is 
                 one subtle point  in it:  we need to  know that  there exists a field of size close  to 
                 2n.  (Knowing that such a field exists, we can find it by a brute-force search, so we 
                 may assume that the field is simple given n.)  It is a classical (but not completely 
                 trivial) result in algebra and number theory.  The field of size 2n can be constructed 
                 by a degree n extension of a field with two elements consisting of all roots of the 
                polynomial x2  — x.  Also we can use the Bertrand postulate which guarantees that 
                for every N there is a prime number p between N and 2N and use residues modulo 
                p where p is a prime number close to 2n.
                      Now we have a concrete example of two strings with non-extractable mutual 
                information:  a random pair whose first term is a point, the second term is a line, 
                 and the point  and the line are incident.  To make this example more symmetric, 
                we may consider a projective plane instead of the affine one (the complexity does 
                not change much since infinite points form a negligible fraction of all points).  We 
                may also choose a random pair of orthogonal one-dimensional subspaces in a three- 
                dimensional space over a finite field (with scalar product X\y\ + Х2У2 + жзУз).
                      It would be nice to construct a similar example using spaces over M (points on 
                the sphere in R3).  Probably one can take some discrete subset of the sphere with 
                reasonable constant density, but there are some problems:  If x and у are close, then 
                there are many points that are almost orthogonal to both.
                      Of course, the coefficient 1.1 is not optimal.  The same argument can be tried 
                for arbitrary a,ß, 7 and is successful (the number of covered edges is less than 3n) 
                if they are not too large.  Using our lemma (exactly in the form it is stated), one 
                can get the following result.  The set C(x, y) for a random pair (incident point and 
                line)  is contained up to 0(logn)-precision in the set S shown in Figure 37.  (The 
                value a = 3n corresponds to the origin.)  For /3 ^ 7  the set  5 is defined by the
                                                         Figure 37.  The set S
