                                       9.12.  NON-MONOTONIC  SELECTION  RULES                            295
                        Figure 27.  Possible choices of a gambler presented in usual (left) 
                       and logarithmic  (right)  scale.  A  dashed  line  represents  possible 
                       choices for the game with bounded bets considered in the lemma.
              shown in a logarithmic scale, then we get a curve (instead of a line segment, if we 
              use a normal scale);  see Figure 27.  It  is easy to see that this curve is below the 
              tangent line, so the game will be better for us if we replace the curve by the line. 
              And this line corresponds exactly to the game with bounded bets considered in the 
              lemma.
                   Now it is easy to prove the following statement (where both the condition and 
              the claim are stronger than in Theorem 193):
                   Theorem 194.  Let к be an arbitrary computable upper bound for the function 
              C,  and let ш  be a sequence such that
                                                  k(üjQ ' '  '    А   (У .П
              for  some  a  <  1  and for  all  sufficiently  large  n.   Then ш  is  not  Mises-Church 
              random.
                   P r o o f.  For every n we can compute the list  An for all n-bit strings x such 
              that k{x) < an.  This list contains at most 2an+°(1) strings, and for all sufficiently 
              large n the n-bit prefix of ш is among them.
                   For these n the strategy constructed using our lemma  (for the set  An)  wins 
              at  least  (1 — a)n — 0(1)  dollars  playing  with  the  first  n  bits  of oj.  Consider  a 
              computable fast growing sequence of щ (we assume that n^-i/n* —> 0), and combine 
              the strategies for all AUi  into one.  In fact, the strategy for AUi  will be used only 
              after Пг-i  (where the preceding one stops), but this is a negligible fraction of щ. 
              So the combined strategy is successful:  Its gain on the first n bits exceeds en for 
              some fixed e and for infinitely many n.  (Take e < 1 — a and n = щ for large i.)
                   This is not possible for a Mises-Church random sequence (see Theorem 170 on 
              p.  267).                                                                                   □
                   Now we are prepared to prove Theorem 193.
                   PROOF.  Following the same scheme, we consider the set An of all n-bit strings 
              that have complexity at most an; it contains about 2an strings, including the prefix 
              of oj.  However, now we cannot compute the list of all elements of An, we can only 
              enumerate it, and we never know whether all the elements appeared or not.  So we 
              cannot  use An  in the lemma.  To overcome this problem,  we use non-monotonic 
              selection rules.
                  Again, we need to select a fast growing sequence щ, for example, щ = г!, and 
              cut the sequence into pieces of size щ — Щ-\.  Increasing a, we may assume that 
              the complexity of the ith piece is  at  most a  times its  length,  so  the complexity 
              per letter is at most a.  Let Ai be the set of all strings of length щ — n*_i  where
