             322           10.  INEQUALITIES  FOR ENTROPY,  COMPLEXITY  AND SIZE
             sizes (their logarithms) are proportional to the entropies of ту.  The ideal situation 
             is
                                              logmA{I) - H(ry)
             for all I C  {1,... , n}.  Then we would conclude immediately that every inequality 
             that is true for the (log-sizes of the) projections of uniform sets is true for arbitrary 
             random variables.
                 Of course, this requirement is too restrictive:  The entropies in general are not 
             logarithms of integer numbers.  But  if we  are interested  in  linear  inequalities,  it 
             is  enough if the log-sizes  are proportional  to entropies,  or  approximately  propor­
             tional to them.  To achieve this,  we consider first the case when the probabilities 
             of all values of (ry,... ,уп)  are rational.  This is enough to conclude that the lin­
             ear inequalities for entropies and log-sizes are the same (the rational numbers are 
             dense, and every distribution can be approximated by a distribution with rational 
             probabilities, while the entropy is a continuous function of the distribution).
                 Assume that  a tuple of random variables ту,..., rjn  is  given.  Each  value of 
             this  tuple  is  a column of height  n.  Each column has  (we  assume)  some rational 
             probability.  Let iV be a common denominator for all the probabilities.  Consider a 
             matrix with N columns where the columns appear with given probabilities, so our 
             tuple can be obtained by taking at random a column from this matrix.
                 Let us consider the rows of this matrix.  The ith. row is a string of length N 
             over an alphabet whose letters are possible values of    Denote the set of all strings 
             of length N in this alphabet by X{.  (The length N is fixed, so we do not include 
             N in the notation.)  Then the entire matrix is an element of X\ x • • • x Xn.
                 Consider now all matrices that can be obtained from this one by a permutation 
             of columns.  In other words, consider all matrices of width N where the frequencies 
             of all the columns are exactly the same as in our matrix,  i.e., they correspond to 
             the distribution of the tuple ry,... ,rjn.  We get some set U C X\  x  • • • x Xn.  Let 
             us show that this is a uniform set with the required sizes of all the projections.
                 First, let us note that every element of U is obtained from the original table by 
             some permutation of columns.  If we take a random permutation (all N\ permuta­
             tions are équiprobable), the probability of getting a given element of a set U does 
             not  depend on the element.  (Indeed,  the number of permutations that give this 
             element is equal to the number of permutations that keep this element unchanged, 
             and this depends only on the multiplicities of different columns and not on their 
             positions.)
                 This property remains true if we delete some rows from the table.  Therefore, 
             the projection of a random point in U on an arbitrary subset of coordinates is also 
             uniformly distributed, so the set U is uniform.
                 Now we need to estimate the sizes of projections.  First, let us find the size of 
             the set  itself.  Assume that the matrix has m different columns that appear in it 
            with probabilities q\,... ,qm.  Then the number of matrices that can be obtained 
             by permutations of columns is equal to
                                                      N\
                                           (qiN)\(q2N)\---(qmN)V 
             and its logarithm is (by Stirling’s formula)
                                         Nh(qi,...,qm) + 0(logAO,
