                            Question                          Passage received by BM25                                        Passage retrieved by DPR
                            Whatisthebodyofwater              Title:British Cycling                                           Title: Irish Sea
                            between England and Ireland?      . . . England is not recognised as a region by the UCI, and     . . . Annual trafﬁc between Great Britain and Ireland amounts
                                                              there is no English cycling team outside the Commonwealth       to over 12 million passengers and of traded goods. The Irish
                                                              Games. For those occasions, British Cycling selects and sup-    Sea is connected to the North Atlantic at both its northern
                                                              ports the England team. Cycling is represented on the Isle      and southern ends. To the north, the connection is through
                                                              of Man by the Isle of Man Cycling Association. Cycling in       the North Channel between Scotland and Northern Ireland
                                                              Northern Ireland is organised under Cycling Ulster, part of     and the Malin Sea. The southern end is linked to the Atlantic
                                                              the all-Ireland governing body Cycling Ireland. Until 2006,     through the St George’s Channel between Ireland and Pem-
                                                              a rival governing body existed, ...                             brokeshire, and the Celtic Sea. ...
                                                                                                                                      ˚
                            WhoplaysThorosofMyrin             Title: No One (Game of Thrones)                                 Title: Pal Sverre Hagen
                                                                                                                                ˚
                            GameofThrones?                    . . . He may be ”no one,” but there’s still enough of a person  Pal Sverre Valheim Hagen (born 6 November 1980) is a Nor-
                                                              left in him to respect, and admire who this girl is and what    wegian stage and screen actor. He appeared in the Norwe-
                                                              she’s become. Arya ﬁnally tells us something that we’ve kind    gian ﬁlm ”Max Manus” and played Thor Heyerdahl in the
                                                              of known all along, that she’s not no one, she’s Arya Stark     Oscar-nominated 2012 ﬁlm ”Kon-Tiki”. Pl Hagen was born
                                                              of Winterfell.” ”No One” saw the reintroduction of Richard      in Stavanger, Norway, the son of Roar Hagen, a Norwegian
                                                                                                                                                                                  ´
                                                              DormerandPaulKaye,whoportrayedBericDondarrionand                cartoonist whohaslongbeenassociatedwithNorwayslargest
                                                              ThorosofMyr,respectively, in the third season, ...              daily, ”VG”. He lived in Jtten, a neighborhood in the city of
                                                                                                                              Stavanger in south-western Norway. ...
                          Table 7: Examples of passages returned from BM25 and DPR. Correct answers are written in blue and the content
                          words in the question are written in bold.
                          fromthetop5positiveandtop30negativepassages
                          (from the set of top 100 passages retrieved from
                          the same question). The question encoder’s initial
                          state is taken from a DPR model previously trained
                          on the NQ dataset. The reader’s initial state is a
                          BERT-basemodel. In terms of the end-to-end QA
                          results, our joint-training scheme does not provide
                          better results compared to the usual retriever/reader
                          training pipeline, resulting in the same 39.8 exact
                          match score on NQ dev as in our regular reader
                          modeltraining.
