           227:16                                                Shraddha Barke, Hila Peleg, and Nadia Polikarpova
           6.1   ExperimentalSetup
           WeevaluateProbeonthreedifferentapplication domains: string manipulation (String), bit-vector
           manipulation (BitVec), and circuit transformations (Circuit). We perform our experiments on a
           set of total 140 benchmarks, 82 of which are String benchmarks, 27 are BitVec benchmarks and
           31 are Circuit benchmarks. The grammars containing the available operations for each of these
           domains appear in the extended version of this paper [Barke et al. 2020].
           StringBenchmarks.The82Stringbenchmarksaretakenfromthetestingsetof EuPhony[eup
           2018]. The entire EuPhony String benchmark suite consists of 205 problems, from the PBE-String
           track of the 2017 SyGuS competition and from string-manipulation questions from popular online
           forums. EuPhony uses 82 out of these 205 benchmarks as their testing set based on the criterion
           that EUSolver [Alur et al. 2017b] could not solve them within 10 minutes. String benchmark
           grammars have a median of 16 operations, 11 literals, and 1 variable. All these benchmarks use
           input-output examples as semantic specification, and the number of examples ranges from 2 to 400.
           BitVecBenchmarks.The27BitVecbenchmarksoriginatefromthebookHacker’sDelight [War-
           ren 2013], commonly referred to as the bible of bit-twiddling hacks. We took 20 of them verbatim
           from the SyGuS competition suite: these are all the highest difoculty level (d5) Hacker’s Delight
           benchmarksinSyGuS.Wethenfound7additionalloop-freebenchmarksinsynthesisliterature[Gul-
           wanietal.2011;Jhaetal.2010]andmanuallyencodedthemintheSyGuSformat.BitVecbenchmark
           grammarshaveamedianof17operations,3literals, and 1 variable. The semantic specification of
           BitVecbenchmarksisauniversally-quantified first-order formula that is functionally equivalent
           to the target program.
              Note that in addition to Hacker’s Delight benchmarks, the SyGuS bitvector benchmark set
           also contains EuPhony bitvector benchmarks. We decided to exclude these benchmarks from our
           evaluation because they have very peculiar solutions: they all require extensive case-splitting, and
           hence are particularly suited to synthesizers that perform condition abduction [Albarghouthi et al.
           2013; Alur et al. 2017b; Kneuss et al. 2013]. Since Probe (unlike EuPhony) does not implement
           conditionabduction,itisboundtoperformpoorlyonthesebenchmarks.Atthesametime,condition
           abduction is orthogonal to the techniques introduced in this paper; hence Probe’s performance on
           these benchmarks would not be informative.
           Circuit Benchmarks. The 31 Circuit benchmarks are taken from the EuPhony testing set.
           These benchmarks involve synthesizing constant-time circuits that are cryptographically resilient
           to timing attacks. Circuit benchmark grammars have a median of 4 operations, 0 literals, and
           6 variables. The semantic specification is a universally-quantified boolean formula functionally
           equivalent to the circuit to be synthesized.
           Reducing first-order specifications to examples. As discussed above, only the string domain
           uses input-output examples as the semantic specification, while the other two domains use a more
           general SyGuS formulation where the specification is a (universally-quantified) first-order formula.
           WeextendProbetohandlethelatterkindofspecifications in a standard way (see e.g. [Alur et al.
           2017b]), using counter-example guided inductive synthesis (CEGIS) [Solar-Lezama et al. 2006]. CEGIS
           proceeds in iterations, where each iteration first synthesizes a candidate program that works on a
           finite set of inputs, and then verifies this candidate against the full specification, adding any failing
           inputs to the set of inputs to be considered in the next synthesis iteration. We use Probe for the
           synthesis phaseoftheCEGISloop.AtthestartofeachCEGISiteration,weinitializeanindependent
           instance of Probe starting from a uniform grammar.
           BaselineSolvers. As the state-of-the-art in research questions (Q2) and (Q3) we use EuPhony and
           CVC4,whicharethestate-of-the-art SyGuS solvers in terms of performance and solution quality.
           Proc. ACMProgram. Lang., Vol. 4, No. OOPSLA, Article 227. Publication date: November 2020.
