                OPTOELECTRONICS LETTERS                                                     Vol.21 No.9, 15 September 2025 
                Point-voxel dual transformer for LiDAR 3D object detec-
                        *
                tion  
                   
                                      1                   1             1                     2
                       TONG Jigang , YANG Fanhang , YANG Sen , and DU Shengzhi ** 
                       1. Tianjin Key Laboratory for Control Theory & Applications in Complicated Systems and Intelligent Robot Labora-
                         tory, Tianjin University of Technology, Tianjin 300384, China 
                                                                                                                            1
                       2. Department of Electrical Engineering, Tshwane University of Technology, Pretoria 0001, South Africa  
                        
                       (Received 17 July 2023; Revised 2 March 2025) 
                       ©Tianjin University of Technology 2025 
                        
                       In this paper, a two-stage light detection and ranging (LiDAR) three-dimensional (3D) object detection framework is 
                       presented, namely point-voxel dual transformer (PV-DT3D), which is a transformer-based method. In the proposed 
                       PV-DT3D, point-voxel fusion features are used for proposal refinement. Specifically, keypoints are sampled from en-
                       tire point cloud scene and used to encode representative scene features via a proposal-aware voxel set abstraction 
                       module. Subsequently, following the generation of proposals by the region proposal networks (RPN), the internal en-
                       coded keypoints are fed into the dual transformer encoder-decoder architecture. In 3D object detection, the proposed 
                       PV-DT3D takes advantage of both point-wise transformer and channel-wise architecture to capture contextual infor-
                       mation from the spatial and channel dimensions. Experiments conducted on the highly competitive KITTI 3D car de-
                       tection  leaderboard  show  that  the  PV-DT3D  achieves  superior  detection  accuracy  among  state-of-the-art 
                       point-voxel-based methods. 
                       Document code: A Article ID: 1673-1905(2025)09-0547-8 
                       DOI    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11801-025-3134-9 
                        
                        
                1. Introduction 
                                                                                   grades localization accuracy.   
                                                                                      To address the issue of repetitive calculations in tradi-
                Three-dimensional  (3D)  object  detection  from  point 
                                                                                   tional  point-wise  methods  and  the  loss  of  localization 
                clouds for autonomous driving attracts increasing interest 
                                                                                   information  in  voxel-based  approaches,  we  turned  our 
                                                                                                                              [9]
                in the field of deep learning. Traditional neural networks 
                                                                                   attention  to  transformers.  Transformer   was  recently 
                                                                 [1,2]
                are  successfully  applied  in  computer  vision     ,  which 
                                                                                   considered as an ideal model for point cloud processing, 
                paved the way for light detection and ranging (LiDAR) 
                                                                                   rooting from the advantage of self-attention. As the core 
                3D  object  detection.  However,  unlike  regular  images 
                                                                                   component in transformer, self-attention is able to cap-
                where convolutional neural network (CNN)-like opera-
                                                                                   ture relationships among points in large scale. Besides, 
                tors can be directly applied, point clouds are commonly 
                                                                                   its inherent permutation invariance is well suited for un-
                unordered and sparse. To tackle these challenges, several 
                                                                                   ordered points. According to the operating space, trans-
                                                                    [3,4]
                                                                                                                                         [10]
                methods  project  raw  point  clouds  into  voxels     ,  and 
                                                                                   formers are divided into point-wise transformers           and 
                                                                                                                [11]
                then use 3D CNNs to extract features. But these methods 
                                                                                   channel-wise transformers      .  The former highlights the 
                suffer from a growing memory requirement, and inevita-
                                                                                   spatial relationships among input points, while the latter 
                bly sacrifice fine-grained position details which are im-
                                                                                   focuses on the interactions among different channels. 
                portant for accurate localization. On the other hand, fol-
                                                                                      This  paper  proposes  a  point-voxel  dual  transformer 
                                                [5]                   [6]
                lowing  the  pioneering  work   and  its  variants ,  the 
                                                                                   (PV-DT3D) by combine the advantages of the point-wise 
                point-wise methods directly extract features from the raw 
                                                                                   and  channel-wise  methods.  The  PV-DT3D  includes  a 
                                                              [7]
                points. Generally, the point-wise methods  retain more 
                                                                                   proposal-aware voxel set abstraction (VSA) module for 
                accurate  position  information  for  fine-grained  refine-
                                                                                   aggregating  information  of  point-level  positions, 
                ment, but they are usually time-consuming due to repeti-
                                                                                   multi-scale voxel features and the generated proposals. 
                                                                  [4,8]
                                                                                                                             [12]
                tive  calculation.  The  voxel-based  approaches        effec-
                                                                                   Comparing to the vanilla VSA module          , the PV-DT3D 
                tively  generate  high  quality  proposals,  but  suffer  from 
                                                                                   leverages  better  information  of  high-quality  proposals 
                high memory demands and information loss which de-
                                                                                   and adds local correlations to keypoints to stabilize the 
                                                                             
                *      This work has been supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China (No.62103298), and the South African National Research Foundation 
                    (Nos.132797 and 137951).   
                **    DU Shengzhi is a professor in Tshwane University of Technology, South Africa. He received his Ph.D. degree from Nankai University in 2005. 
                    His research interests include intelligent human-machine systems, computer vision, image analysis and understanding, artificial intelligence. 
                    E-mail: dushengzhi@gmail.com. 
