         # Initial Instructions # Please continue the conversation for the topic #TOPIC#, based on
         requirements and examples. The content of the dialogue should be reasonable and accurate. Use
         ‘Human:’ and ‘Assistant:’ as prompts to indicate the speaker, and respond in English.
                    Figure 8: The initial instructions for data generation.
         Please help me generate a set of multiple rounds of dialogue between users and robots based on a
         given dialogue scenario. It is required that the user’s questions in the last round must be answered
         by combining some of the information he provided previously in order to test the robot’s memory
         ability that it can remember historical conversational information well. Note the exciting user
         question at the end without repeating previous information. The conversation content is required
         to be reasonable, smooth and natural.
         Youcanrefer to these examples:
         # Example 1 #
         # Example 2 #
         # Example 3 #
         Please generate the dialogue in this format, and following the pattern of the second round of Q&A,
         continue to generate the content needed to carry out the task for three to four rounds.
                   Figure 9: The unique prompt for the context memory task.
         You are required to generate multi-turn dialogues in English. Specifically, in the first round of
         dialogue, ‘Human’ should only state the requirements of the task without providing the specific
         content needed to carry out the task. At this point, ‘Assistant’ cannot answer the question and must
         inquire about the content necessary to perform the task. In the second round of dialogue, ‘Human’
         directly presents the content needed for the task without needing to repeat the requirements.
         ‘Assistant’ should then provide a direct response.
         Youcanrefer to these examples:
         # Example 1 #
         # Example 2 #
         # Example 3 #
         Please generate the dialogue in this format, and following the pattern of the second round of Q&A,
         continue to generate the content needed to carry out the task for three to four rounds.
                   Figure 10: The unique prompt for the separate input task.
                              7434
