           
         SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION                                     In format provided by Friston (FEBRUARY 2010) 
                  
                 This flow describes the Newtonian motion of a unit mass in a potential energy well ϕ(x,θ) , 
                 where cost plays the role of negative dissipation or friction. Crucially, under this policy or flow, 
                 divergence is simply cost; meaning the associated ensemble density can only have maxima 
                 in regions of negative cost. This provides a means to specify attractive regions  A⊂ X  by 
                 assigning them negative cost  
                  
                 c(x) ≤ 0: x∈A
                 c(x) > 0: x∉A                                                      S5.4 
                  
                 Put simply, this scheme ensures that agents are expelled from high-cost regions of state-
                 space and get ‘stuck’ in attractive regions. 
                  
                 In summary, the previous supplementary information box (S4) showed that any flow can be 
                 described in terms of a scalar value-function (and vector potential W ), from which an implicit 
                 cost-function can be derived. In this box (S5), we have addressed the inverse problem of how 
                 cost can be used to constrain flow, ensuring that it leads to attractive, low-cost states. The 
                 ensuing policy or flow can be used in a generative model of flow or state-transitions to provide 
                 predictions that action fulfils, under the free-energy principle. A full discussion of these and 
                 related ideas will be presented in Friston et al (in preparation). 
                  
                  
                 Reference 
                 Frank  TD  (2004).  Nonlinear  Fokker-Planck  Equations:  Fundamentals  and  Applications. 
                 Springer Series in Synergetics (Berlin: Springer) 
                  
         NATURE REVIEWS | NEUROSCIENCE                                             www.nature.com/reviews/neuro 
                                          © 2010 Macmillan Publishers Limited.  All rights reserved. 
