Region Frame Feae

a Frame-guided
Transformer
Frame-nware —_ Comv

with Camera Frame Camera Frame Feature

Timestamp 10 Timestamp 20 Timestamp 30 Timestamp 40. Timestamp 50
Point Cloud Sequence with Global and Local Frames

Ea

Frame Learning

4D Tasks

x

Aetion Recognition

—f

Figure 2. Illustration of the proposed Learning Frame for 4D Point Cloud Sequence Understanding (LeaF). We use an $O(3) equivariant
network proposed in [22] to learn hierarchical frames denoted as region frames, We denote the identity frames as camera frames. Under
region frames and camera frames, region frame feature and camera frame feature can be extracted by frame-aware 4D backbones, and
are then fused by region frame-guided transformer to do downs tion recognition, action segmentation, and semantic
segmentation, Data augmentation and regularization losses are also added to make the equivariant Hierarchical frame network robust to
re-sampling, down-sampling, and jittering.

invariant local descriptors first obtain rotation-equivariant metric understanding. Such geometric features are motion-
local reference frames (LRFs) either via PCA methods agnostic, which also allows easier temporal association to-
[29, 13, 29, 31, 12, 15], or by incorporating learning meth- ward a better motion understanding. Realizing the idea
ods to decide the axis in the tangent plane aside from nor- above requires addressing two challenges: how to learn
mal [33], orcompletely by 3D rotation equivariant networks such frames and how to use such frames for 4D learning.
[22]. Under those LRFs, local support sets can be trans- Regarding the first challenge, we introduce a frame
formed into canonical representation, and thus invariant lo- learning module as shown in Figure 2. Since geometric
cal features can be extracted either by hand-crafted method features are naturally hierarchical, the frames have to be
[29, 13, 29, 31] or by leaming methods [12, 15]. Some hierarchical as well. We, therefore, propose to learn such
other methods [27, 26, |, 6] directly extract invariant local frames through a hierarchical Frame Network. We leverage
features from invariant local geometry property, e.g., the dot rotation equivariant networks [| 2] to design the FrameNet
product of point pair normals. so that its output transforms in the same way as the underly-
ing geometry. This network produces a hierarchy of frames
3. Method covering regions from local to global. The global region

frame allows factorizing ego-motion and aligning different
observations to a unified view. The local region frame can
align local geometry to a canonical space.

We first provide an overview of our method in Sec-
tion 3.1. Next, in Sections 3.2, 3.3 we describe our ap-
proach in detail in terms of how to learn hierarchical frames

. To stabilize the fra learnii ing so that th
and how to use the learned frames, respectively. 0 Stapilize ine Trame Teaming Processing so that the

FrameNet could learn temporally consistent region frames
at different scales, we design a frame stabilization strategy.
Given an input point cloud, we first apply data augmenta-

3.1. Overview

Our core idea is to establish geometry-based and tion to obtain the augmented version of it. Then we feed
temporally-consistent local coordinate frames to factorize both the original point cloud and the augmented one through
the local geometry understanding from its underlying mo- the FrameNet and enforce their predictions to be consistent.
tion. Such frames would allow us to align the local geome- Through various data augmentation strategies, we can keep

try from different timestamps toward a more complete geo- the rotation equivariance of our predicted frames regardless

606
