ll
\,

3€

te
all
%
th
als
ti-
in
in-
the
vi-
vo-
hat

t to
. re-
ung
ns.

- be-

567

havioral sparing resulted from sparing of remnants of the prestriate
relay was only inferential. In an attempt to demonstrate the preserved
pathway directly, a neuroanatomical experiment was undertaken on
two additional monkeys with massive prestriate removals that had been
successfully retrained by approximation on the pattern discrimination.
More than a year after the prestriate-cortex removals, one of these ani-
mals was given a second-stage operation in which the entire occipital
lobe posterior to the initial lesion was removed from one hemisphere,
and the brain was examined for anterograde degeneration by the
Fink-Heimer (1967) technique. The critical question was whether de-
generation would appear in the inferior temporal cortex ipsilateral to
the occipital lobectomy. Since striate cortex does not project directly to
the inferior temporal area, the presence of degeneration here would in-
dicate that the lobectomy had destroyed prestriate-relay tissue spared
by the initial lesion—a finding that would account for the functional
sparing that had been demonstrated both behaviorally and elec-
trophysiologically. In fact, terminal degeneration did result in the ip-
silateral inferior temporal cortex, specifically in the ventral part of area
TEO. In addition, degenerating material was found in an unexpected
area, the floor of the caudal portion of the superior temporal sulcus,
which turned out to be a second spared route through which visual
input could reach inferior temporal cortex. This was demonstrated in
the other monkey of the anatomical experiment, which was given a
second-stage lesion in just this portion of the superior temporal sulcus
of one hemisphere, again more than a year after the initial prestriate
removal. Terminal degeneration was found in the ipsilateral inferior
temporal cortex of this case also, specifically in the dorsal part of area
TEO.

The foregoing series of experiments made it clear that, although the
massive prestriate-cortex removals had severely disrupted the prestriate
relay, they had not totally abolished it. As illustrated in figure 18.11,
spared pathways that presumably continued to serve as effective relays
were directly demonstrated anatomically. At the same time, however,
the anatomical results raised some important new questions. For exam-
ple, what were the loci of the spared prestriate remnants whose removal
gave rise to the degeneration in the ventral part of area TEO? Also, what
was the source of the unexpected degeneration in the depth of the
caudal portion of the superior temporal sulcus, an area from which a
projection had been traced to dorsal TEO? These questions highlighted
our lack of knowledge about the precise links through which visual in-
formation originating in the striate cortex is transmitted to inferior
temporal cortex. Even greater ignorance surrounded the location and
arrangement of the links in the striate-parietal pathway. It became ap-
parent that, in order to obtain this information, a comprehensive
anatomical investigation was needed, beginning with an analysis of the
projections of the striate cortex itself.

Two Cortical Visual Systems
