iia ie
Lao

Abe |W
Lo Yer

15° 20° 30°

Figure 18.13 Relationship between topography of striate cortex and representation of the contralateral vi-
sual field. According to the electrophysiological map of Daniel and Whitteridge (1961), shown at bottom, the
center of gaze (fixation) is represented in the far anterolateral part of striate cortex, just below the ventral tip
of the lunate sulcus. The representation of the vertical meridian passes through fixation (X) and continues all
along the 17-18 border (dashed line). The representation of the horizontal meridian is a horizontal line (not
illustrated) passing from fixation across the lateral surface, entering the depth of the calcarine fissure, and
continuing to the rostral limit of the medial striate cortex (dashed arrow). The upper visual field is repre-
sented below the horizontal meridian and the lower visual field above the horizontal meridian. The lateral
surface of striate cortex (A), the lateral bank of the calcarine limbs (B), the medial bank of the calcarine limbs
(C, D), and the stem of the calcarine fissure (E, F) represent approximately the center 7°, 7°-13°, 13°-22°, and
eccentricities greater than 22° from fixation, respectively. Thus, a progression from lateral to posterior to
medial striate cortex corresponds to a progression from central to peripheral to far-peripheral vision.

vertical meridian is represented at the inner boundary of this projection
field (that is, at the striate-OB border), the horizontal meridian is repre-
sented at its outer boundary (at the OB-OA border).

The second projection field of striate cortex is located within cytoar-
chitectonic area OA along the caudal portion of the superior temporal
sulcus (Ungerleider and Mishkin 1978b, 1979b). As indicated in the lat-
eral view of the brain shown in figure 18.17, the ventral limit of this
region can be demarcated by an imaginary line connecting the ventral
tips of the lunate and intraparietal sulci; from this limit the region ex-
tends dorsocaudally for about 1 cm to the point at which the superior
temporal sulcus frequently bifurcates, sending one spur forward into
the inferior parietal lobule. Within this portion of the superior temporal
sulcus there is again an orderly mapping of the contralateral visual field,

571 Two Cortical Visual Systems
