                3     The Coﬀee Automaton
                The coﬀee cup system that we use as our model is a simple stochastic cellular automaton. A two-
                dimensional array of bits describes the system’s state, with ones representing particles of cream,
                and zeros representing particles of coﬀee.     The cellular automaton implementation used for this
                                                                                       4
                project is written in Python; source code is available for download.
                    The automaton begins in a state in which the top half of the cells are ﬁlled with ones, and the
                bottom half is ﬁlled with zeros.    At each time step, the values in the cells change according to a
                particular transition rule. We consider two diﬀerent models of the coﬀee cup system, each having
                its own transition rule.
                3.1    Interacting Model
                In the interacting model of the coﬀee cup system, only one particle may occupy each cell in the state
                array.  The transition rule for this model is as follows: at each time step, one pair of horizontally
                or vertically adjacent, diﬀering particles is selected, and the particles’ positions are swapped. This
                model is interacting in the sense that the presence of a particle in a cell prevents another particle
                from entering that cell.    The movements of particles in this model are not independent of one
                another.
                    This model reﬂects the physical principle that two pieces of matter may not occupy the same
                space at the same time.     However, the interactions between particles that make this model more
                realistic also make it harder to reason about theoretically.
                3.2    Non-Interacting Model
                In the non-interacting model of the coﬀee cup system, any number of cream particles may occupy
                a single cell in the state array.  Coﬀee particles are not considered important in this model; they
                are simply considered a background through which the cream particles move. The transition rule
                for this model is as follows: at each time step, each cream particle in the system moves one step
                in a randomly chosen direction. This model is non-interacting in that the location of each cream
                particle is independent of all the others. The presence of a cream particle in a particular cell does
                not prevent another cream particle from also moving into that cell.
                    Weconsiderthismodelbecauseitiseasiertounderstandtheoretically. Sincetheparticlesinthe
                system do not interact, each particle can be considered to be taking an independent random walk.
                The dynamics of random walks are well-understood, so it is easy to make theoretical predictions
                about this model (see Appendix 9) and compare them to the experimental results.
                4     Approximating Apparent Complexity
                While Kolmogorov complexity and sophistication are useful theoretical notions to model our ideas
                of entropy and complexity, they cannot be directly applied in numerical simulations, because they
                are both uncomputable. As such, while we use these concepts as a theoretical foundation, we need
                to develop algorithms that attempt to approximate them.
                    Evans et al. [5] propose an algorithm, called the optimal symbol compression ratio (OSCR)
                algorithm, which directly estimates Kolmogorov complexity and sophistication.          Given an input
                   4At www.scottaaronson.com/coffee automaton.zip
                                                                   10
