                     Both the interacting and non-interacting models show the predicted increasing, then decreasing
                 pattern of complexity.    Both models also have an increasing entropy pattern, which is expected
                 due to the second law of thermodynamics.         The initial spike in entropy for the non-interacting
                 automaton can be explained by the fact that all of the particles can move simultaneously after
                 the ﬁrst time step. Thus, the number of bits needed to represent the state of the non-interacting
                 automaton jumps after the ﬁrst time step. With the interacting automaton, by contrast, particles
                 far from the coﬀee-cream border cannot move until particles closer to the border have moved, so
                 there is less change in the automaton at each time step. Therefore, the estimated entropy of this
                 model is predictably more continuous throughout.
                     A visualization of the automaton’s changing state over time is provided in Figures 3 and 4.
                 This visualization is generated by converting each cell’s value to a grayscale color value; lighter
                 colors correspond to larger values. Visually, the ﬁne-grained representation of the state continues
                 to grow more complicated with time, while the coarse-grained representation ﬁrst becomes ﬁrst
                 more and then less complicated.
                                               t = 0           t = 8×106           t = 2×107
                 Figure 3: Visualization of the state of the interacting automaton of size 100 over time.  The top row of
                 images is the ﬁne-grained array, used to estimate entropy. The bottom row is the coarse-grained array, used
                 to estimate complexity.  From left to right, the images represent the automaton state at the beginning of
                 the simulation, at the complexity maximum, and at the end of the simulation.
                     The gzip compression algorithm was used to generate the results in Figure 2, and is used
                 throughout when a general ﬁle compression program is needed.            The results achieved using the
                 coarse-graining metric are qualitatively similar when diﬀerent compression programs are used, as
                 shown in Figure 5.
                     Given these results, it is informative to examine how complexity varies with n, the size of the
                 automaton.
                     The well-ﬁt quadratic curve for the maximum values of entropy (Figure 6) is expected.            The
                 maximum entropy of an automaton is proportional to the number of particles in the automaton.
                 This is because, if the state of the automaton is completely random, then the compressed size of
                 the state is equal to the uncompressed size–the number of particles.         As the automaton size, n,
                 increases, the number of particles increases to n2.
                                                                    13
