             Identical networks yield signiﬁcantly better results purely by having the solver in the learning loop.
             This indicates that the numerical errors have regular structures that can be learned and corrected
             via learned representations. The resulting networks likewise improve generalization for out-of-
             distribution samples and provide stable, long-term recurrent predictions. Our results have the
             potential to enhance learning physical priors for a variety of deep learning tasks. Beyond engineering
             applications and medical simulations, a particularly interesting application of our approach is weather
             prediction [45], where a simple differentiable solver could be augmented with a learned correction
             function to recover the costly predictions of operational forecasting systems.
             Overall, we hope that the demonstrated gains in accuracy will help to establish trained neural networks
             as components in the numerical toolbox of computational science.
             BroaderImpact
             PDE-based models are very commonly used and can be applied to a wide range of applications,
             including weather and climate, epidemics, civil engineering, manufacturing processes, and medical
             applications. Our work has the potential to improve how these PDEs are solved. As PDE-solvers
             have a long history, there is a wide range of established tools, some of which still use COBOL and
             FORTRAN.Hence,itwillnotbeeasytointegratedeeplearningmethodsintothe existing solving
             pipelines, but in the long run, our method could yield solvers that compute more accurate solutions
             with a given amount of computational resources.
             Duetothewiderangeofapplications of PDEs, our methods could also be used in the development of
             military equipment (machines and weapons) or other harmful systems. However, our method shares
             this danger with all numerical methods. For the discipline of computational science as a whole, we
             see more positive aspects when computer simulations become more powerful. Nonetheless, we will
             encourageusersofourmethodlikewisetoconsiderethicalimplicationswhenemployingPDE-solvers
             with learning via differentiable physics.
             AcknowledgmentsandDisclosureofFunding
             This work is supported by the ERC Starting Grant realFlow (StG-2015-637014).
             References
             [1] B.AmosandJ.Z.Kolter. OptNet: Differentiableoptimizationasalayerinneuralnetworks. InInternational
               Conference on Machine Learning, 2017.
             [2] V. I. Arnold. Geometrical methods in the theory of ordinary differential equations, volume 250. Springer
               Science & Business Media, 2012.
             [3] V. Bapst, A. Sanchez-Gonzalez, C. Doersch, K. Stachenfeld, P. Kohli, P. Battaglia, and J. Hamrick.
               Structured agents for physical construction. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
               464–474, 2019.
             [4] Y. Bar-Sinai, S. Hoyer, J. Hickey, and M. P. Brenner. Learning data-driven discretizations for partial
               differential equations. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 116(31):15344–15349, 2019.
             [5] P. W. Battaglia, J. B. Hamrick, and J. B. Tenenbaum. Simulation as an engine of physical scene under-
               standing. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 110(45), 2013.
             [6] A. D. Beck, D. G. Flad, and C. Munz. Deep neural networks for data-driven turbulence models. CoRR,
               abs/1806.04482, 2018.
             [7] M. E. Brachet, D. I. Meiron, S. A. Orszag, B. Nickel, R. H. Morf, and U. Frisch. Small-scale structure of
               the taylor–green vortex. Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 130:411–452, 1983.
             [8] S. L. Brunton, J. L. Proctor, and J. N. Kutz. Discovering governing equations from data by sparse identiﬁca-
               tion of nonlinear dynamicalsystems. ProceedingsoftheNationalAcademyofSciences,113(15):3932–3937,
               2016.
             [9] T. Q. Chen, Y. Rubanova, J. Bettencourt, and D. K. Duvenaud. Neural ordinary differential equations. In
               Advances in neural information processing systems, pages 6571–6583, 2018.
                                   9
