                   Figure 4: Accuracy versus token usage for different model families. FFS-k variants are
                   shownindistinct colors (one color per k). Marker size encodes the value of N, with larger
                   markersrepresenting larger N.
                   Figure 5: Accuracy versus token usage for different model families. LFS@N variants are
                   shownindistinct colors (one color per N). Marker size encodes the value of k, with larger
                   markersrepresenting larger k.
                   It is more interesting to observe how the order between short and long traces for easy and
                   hard problems varies across different models. For short-horizon models (R1, QwQ-32B,
                   DAPO-32B), we find that for a given problem difficulty, shorter traces are more likely to
                   becorrect than longer ones. This is in line with the recent observations made by (Agarwal
                   et al., 2025; Hassid et al., 2025) where the authors find that conciseness in the reasoning
                   trace is linked to better accuracy. However, we observe a different phenomenon with other
                   moreadvancedmodelssuchasQwen3-32BandGPT-OSS-120B,whereforeasierproblems
                   shorter traces are better, but for harder problems longer traces are preferred.
                   DAPO-32B shows a similar length bias pattern to prior models, with shorter traces more
                   likelytobecorrectthanlongerones(Table1). ThebiaslevelisalsoclosetothatofR1,which
                   suggeststhatanyimprovementsinmitigatinglengthbiasoverGRPOmaybelimitedunder
                   ourevaluation.
                   The complete results for different models, datasets, and TTS strategies can be found in
                   AppendixB.Individual,model-wiseplotsforFFSandLFSarepresentinAppendixC.
                     Finding
                     DAPOinduceslengthbiastothesameextentasGRPO.
                   4  Analysis
                   It is necessary to determine how the performance of FFS-k@N and LFS-k@N varies for dif-
                   ferent values of k and N across the models, in order to find the optimal strategy. Figures 4
                                                    7
