               8th ICML Workshop on Automated Machine Learning (2021)
                                 PonderNet: Learning to Ponder
               Andrea Banino∗
               DeepMind
               London, UK
               abanino@deepmind.com
               Jan Balaguer*
               DeepMind
               London, UK
               jan@deepmind.com
               Charles Blundell
               DeepMind
               London, UK
               cblundell@deepmind.com
                                               Abstract
                   In standard neural networks the amount of computation used grows with the size of the in-
                   puts, but not with the complexity of the problem being learnt. To overcome this limitation
                   we introduce PonderNet, a new algorithm that learns to adapt the amount of computa-
                   tion based on the complexity of the problem at hand. PonderNet learns end-to-end the
                   number of computational steps to achieve an eﬀective compromise between training pre-
                   diction accuracy, computational cost and generalization. On a complex synthetic problem,
                   PonderNet dramatically improves performance over previous adaptive computation meth-
                   ods and additionally succeeds at extrapolation tests where traditional neural networks fail.
                   Also, our method matched the current state of the art results on a real world question and
                   answering dataset, but using less compute. Finally, PonderNet reached state of the art
                   results on a complex task designed to test the reasoning capabilities of neural networks.
               1. Introduction
               The time required to solve a problem is a function of more than just the size of the inputs.
               Commonlyproblems also have an inherent complexity that is independent of the input size:
               it is faster to add two numbers than to divide them. Most machine learning algorithms do
               not adjust their computational budget based on the complexity of the task they are learning
               to solve, or arguably, such adaptation is done manually by the machine learning practitioner.
               This adaptation is known as pondering. In prior work, Adaptive Computation Time (ACT;
               Graves, 2016) automatically learns to scale the required computation time via a scalar
               halting probability. This halting probability modulates the number of computational steps,
               called the “ponder time”, needed for each input. Unfortunately ACT is notably unstable and
                ∗. contributed equally
                c
               2021 Andrea Banino, Jan Balaguer, Charles Blundell.
                                                                           Banino, Balaguer, Blundell
                             sensitive to the choice of a hyper-parameter that trades-oﬀ accuracy and computation cost.
                             Additionally, the gradient for the cost of computation can only back-propagate through the
                             last computational step, leading to a biased estimation of the gradient. Another approach
                             is represented by Adaptive Early Exit Networks (Bolukbasi et al., 2017) where the forward
                             pass of an existing network is terminated at evaluation time if it is likely that the part
                             of the network used so far already predicts the correct answer. More recently, work has
                             investigated the use of REINFORCE (Williams, 1992) to perform conditional computation.
                             Adiscrete latent variable is used to dynamically adjust the number of computation steps.
                             This approach has been applied to recurrent neural networks (Chung et al., 2016; Banino
                             et al., 2020), but has the downside that the estimated gradients have high variance, requiring
                             large batch sizes to train them.                      A parallel line of research has explored using similar
                             techniques to reduce the computation by skipping elements from a sequence of processed
                             inputs (Yu et al., 2017; Campos Camunez et al., 2018).
                                   In this paper we present PonderNet that builds on these previous ideas. PonderNet is
                             fully diﬀerentiable which allows for low-variance gradient estimates (unlike REINFORCE).
                             It has unbiased gradient estimates (unlike ACT). We achieve this by reformulating the
                             halting policy as a probabilistic model. This has consequences in all aspects of the model:
                                  1. Architecture: in PonderNet, the halting node predicts the probability of halting con-
                                      ditional on not having halted before. We exactly compute the overall probability of
                                      halting at each step as a geometric distribution.
                                  2. Loss: we don’t regularize PonderNet to explicitly minimize the number of comput-
                                      ing steps, but incentivize exploration instead. The pressure of using computation
                                      eﬃciently happens naturally as a form of Occam’s razor.
                                  3. Inference: PonderNet is probabilistic both in terms of number of computational steps
                                      and the prediction produced by the network.
                             2. Methods
                             2.1 Problem setting
                             We consider a supervised setting, where we want to learn a function f : x → y from
                                                                     (1)        (k)                       (1)        (k)
                             data (x,y), with x = {x                    , ..., x    } and y = {y              , ..., y   }. We propose a new general
                             architecture for neural networks that modiﬁes the forward pass, as well as a novel loss
                             function to train it.
                             2.2 Step recurrence and halting process
                             ThePonderNet architecture requires a step function s of the form yˆ ,h                                          , λ   =s(x,h ), as
                                                                                                                                  n     n+1     n               n
                             well as an initial state h 1. The output yˆ and λ are respectively the network’s prediction
                                                                 0                          n           n
                             and scalar probability of halting at step n. The step function s can be any neural network,
                             such as MLPs, LSTMs, or encoder-decoder architectures such as transformers. We apply
                             the step function recurrently up to N times.
                               1. Alternatively, one can consider a step function of the form yˆ ,h                     , λ  =s(h )together with an encoder
                                                                                                              n    n+1     n        n
                                  e of the form h = e(x).
                                                      0
                                                                                                  2
                                               Ponder Net: Learning to Ponder
                       The output yˆ is a learned prediction conditioned on the dynamic number of steps
                                      n
                    n ∈ {1,...,N}. We rely on the value of λn to learn the optimal value of n. We deﬁne a
                    Bernoulli random variable Λ in order to represent a Markov process for the halting with
                                                 n
                    two states “continue” (Λ = 0) and “halt” (Λ = 1). The decision process starts from state
                                             n                    n
                    “continue” (Λ = 0). We set the transition probability:
                                  0
                                             P(Λn =1|Λn−1 = 0) = λn       ∀1≤n≤N                             (1)
                    that is the conditional probability of entering state “halt” at step n conditioned that there
                    has been no previous halting. Note that “halt” is a terminal state. We can then estimate the
                    unconditioned probability that the halting happened in steps 0,1,2,...,N where N is the
                    maximum number of steps allowed before halting. We derive this probability distribution
                    p as a generalization of the geometric distribution:
                     n
                                                                n−1
                                                        pn = λn Y(1−λj)                                      (2)
                                                                 j=1
                    which is a valid probability distribution if we integrate over an inﬁnite number of possible
                    computation steps (N → ∞).
                                            ˆ                                                            ˆ
                       The prediction yˆ ∼ Y made by PonderNet is sampled from a random variable Y with
                                                ˆ
                    probability distribution P(Y = y ) = p . In other words, the prediction of PonderNet is
                                                      n      n
                    the prediction made at the step n at which it halts. This is in contrast with ACT, where
                    model predictions are always weighted averages across steps. Additionally, PonderNet is
                    more generic in this regard: if one wishes to do so, it is straightforward to calculate the
                    expected prediction across steps, similar to how it is done in ACT.
                    2.3 Maximum number of pondering steps
                    Since in practice we can only unroll the step function for a limited number of iterations, we
                    must correct for this so that the sum of probabilities p  sums to 1. We can do this in two
                                                                            n
                    ways. One option here is to normalize the probabilities p so that they sum up to 1 (this
                                                                               n
                    is equivalent to conditioning the probability of halting under the knowledge that n ≤ N).
                    Alternatively, we could assign any remaining halting probability to the last step, so that
                              P
                    p  =1− N−1p instead of as previously deﬁned.
                     N          n=1 n
                       In our experiments, we specify the maximum number of steps using two diﬀerent criteria.
                    In evaluation, and under known temporal or computational limitations, N can be set naively
                    as a constant (or not set any limit, i.e. N → ∞). For training, we found that a more
                    eﬀective (and interpretable) way of parameterizing N is by deﬁning a minimum cumulative
                                                                                         P
                    probability of halting. N is then the smallest value of n such that     n  p > 1−ε, with
                                                                                            j=1 j
                    the hyper-parameter ε positive near 0 (in our experiments 0.05).
                    2.4 Training loss
                    The total loss is composed of reconstruction L     and regularization L     terms:
                                                                   Rec                      Reg
                                                                 3
                                                  Banino, Balaguer, Blundell
                                                    N
                                               L=XpL(y,yˆ )+βKL(p ||p (λ ))                                   (3)
                                                        n       n     |     n{zG p }
                                                   n=1                      L
                                                   |     {z      }           Reg
                                                         L
                                                          Rec
                        where L is a pre-deﬁned loss for the prediction (usually mean squared error, or cross-
                    entropy); and λp is a hyper-parameter that deﬁnes a geometric prior distribution p (λp) on
                                                                                                        G
                    the halting policy (truncated at N). LRec is the expectation of the pre-deﬁned reconstruction
                    loss L across halting steps. L     is the KL divergence between the distribution of halting
                                                   Reg
                    probabilities p  and the prior (a geometric distribution truncated at N, parameterized by
                                   n
                    λp). This hyper-parameter deﬁnes a prior on how likely it is that the network will halt at
                    each step. This regularisation serves two purposes. First, it biases the network towards the
                    expected prior number of steps 1/λp. Second, it provides an incentive to give a non-zero
                    probability to all possible number of steps, thus promoting exploration.
                    2.5 Evaluation sampling
                    At evaluation, the network samples on a step basis from the halting Bernoulli random
                    variable Λ ∼ B(p = λ ) to decide whether to continue or to halt. This process is repeated
                              n            n
                    on every step n until a “halt” outcome is sampled, at which point the output y = y
                                                                                                                n
                    becomes the ﬁnal prediction of the network. If a maximum number of steps N is reached,
                    the network is automatically halted and produces a prediction y = y .
                                                                                          N
                    3. Results
                    3.1 Parity
                    In this section we are reporting results on the parity task as introduced in the original ACT
                    paper (Graves, 2016). Out of the four tasks presented in that paper we decided to focus on
                    parity as it was the one showing greater beneﬁt from adaptive compute. In our instantiation
                    of the parity problem the input vectors had 64 elements, of which a random number from
                    1 to 64 were randomly set to 1 or −1 and the rest were set to 0. The corresponding target
                    was 1 if there was an odd number of ones and 0 if there was an even number of ones. We
                    refer the reader to the original ACT paper for speciﬁc details on the tasks (Graves, 2016).
                    Also, please refer to Appendix B for further training and evaluation details.
                        In ﬁgure 1a we can see that PonderNet achieved better accuracy than ACT on the parity
                    task and it did so with a more eﬃcient use of thinking time (1a at the bottom). Moreover,
                    if we consider the total computation time during training (ﬁgure 1c) we can see that, in
                    comparison to ACT, PonderNet employed less computation and achieved higher score.
                        Another analysis we performed on this version of the parity task was to look at the
                    eﬀect of the prior probability on performance. In ﬁgure 2b we show that the only case
                    where PonderNet could not solve the task is when the prior (λp) was set to 0.9, that is when
                    the average number of thinking steps given as prior was roughly 1 (1/0.9). Interestingly,
                    when the prior (λp) was set to 0.1, hence starting with a prior average thinking time of 10
                    steps (1/0.1), the network managed to overcome this and settled to a more eﬃcient average
                    thinking time of roughly 3 steps (ﬁgure 2c). These results are important as they show that
                                                                  4
                                       Ponder Net: Learning to Ponder
                Figure 1: Performance on the parity task. a) Interpolation. Top: accuracy for both PonderNet(blue)
                and ACT(orange). Bottom: number of ponder steps at evaluation time. Error bars calculated over
                10 random seeds. b) Extrapolation. Top: accuracy for both PonderNet(blue) and ACT(orange).
                Bottom: number of ponder steps at evaluation time. Error bars calculated over 10 random seeds.
                c) Total number of compute steps calculated as the number of actual forward passes performed by
                each network. Blue is PonderNet, Green is ACT and Orange is an RNN without adaptive compute.
                our method is particularly robust with respect to the prior, and a clear advancement in
                comparison to ACT, where the τ parameter is diﬃcult to set and it is a source of training
                instability, as explained in the original paper and conﬁrmed by our results. Indeed, Fig.
                2a shows that only for few conﬁguration of τ ACT is able to solve the task and even when
                it does so there is a great variance across seeds. Finally, one advantage of setting a prior
                probability is that this parameter is easy to interpret as the inverse of the “number of
                ponder steps”, whereas the τ parameter does not have any straightforward interpretation,
                which makes it harder to deﬁne a priori.
                Figure 2: Sensitivity to hyper-parameter. a) Sensitivity of ACT to τ. Each box-plot is over 10
                random seeds. b) Sensitivity of PonderNet to λ . Each box-plot is over 10 random seeds. c)
                                                       p
                Box-plot over 30 random seeds for number of ponder steps when λp = 0.1.
                                                      5
                                          Banino, Balaguer, Blundell
                    Next we moved to test the ability of PonderNet to allow extrapolation. To do this we
                 consider input vectors of 96 elements instead. We train the network on input vectors up
                 from integers ranging from 1 to 48 elements and we then evaluate on integers between 49
                 and 96. Figure 1b shows that PonderNet was able to achieve almost perfect accuracy on
                 this hard extrapolation task, whereas ACT remained at chance level. It is interesting to see
                 how PonderNet increased its thinking time to 5 steps, which is almost twice as much as the
                 ones in the interpolation set (see Fig. 1a), showing the capability of our method to adapt
                 its computation to the complexity of the task.
                 3.2 bAbI
                 We then turn our attention to the bAbI question answering dataset (Weston et al., 2015),
                 which consists of 20 diﬀerent tasks. This task was chosen as it proved to be diﬃcult for
                 standard neural network architecture that do not employ adaptive computation (Dehghani
                 et al., 2018). In particular we trained our model on the joint 10k training set. Also, please
                 see Appendix C for further training and evaluation details.
                    Table 1 reports the averaged accuracy of our model and the other baselines on bAbI.
                 Our model is able to match state of the art results, but it achieves them faster and with a
                 lower average error. The comparison with Universal transformer (Dehghani et al., 2018, UT)
                 is interesting as it uses the same transformer architecture as PonderNet, but the compute
                 time is optimised with ACT. Interestingly, to solve 20 tasks, Universal Transformer takes
                 10161 steps, whereas our methods 1658, hence conﬁrming that approach uses less compute
                 than ACT.
                  Architecture                                  Average Error Tasks Solved
                  Memory Networks (Sukhbaatar et al., 2015)        4.2± 0.2          17
                  DNC(Graves, 2016)                                3.8± 0.6          18
                  Universal Transformer (Dehghani et al., 2018)    0.29± 1.4         20
                  Transformer+PonderNet                            0.15± 0.9         20
                   Table 1: bAbI. Test results chosen by validation loss. Average error is calculated over 5 seeds
                 3.3 Paired associative inference
                 Finally, we tested PonderNet on the Paired associative inference task (PAI) (Banino et al.,
                 2020). This task is thought to capture the essence of reasoning – the appreciation of distant
                 relationships among elements distributed across multiple facts or memories and it has been
                 shown to beneﬁt from the addition of adaptive computation. Please refer to Appendix D
                 for further details on the task and the training regime.
                    Table 2 reports the averaged accuracy of our model and the other baselines on PAI.
                 Our model is able to match the results of MEMO, which was speciﬁcally designed with this
                 task in mind. More interestingly, our model although is using the same architecture as UT
                 (Dehghani et al., 2018) is able to achieve higher accuracy. For the complete set of results
                 please see Table 7 in Appendix D.
                                                       6
                                            Ponder Net: Learning to Ponder
                      Length                                          UT     MEMO         PonderNet
                      3 items (trained on: A-B-C - accuracy on A-C)   85.60  98.26(0.67)  97.86(3.78)
                   Table 2: Inference trial accuracy. PonderNet results chosen by validation loss, averaged on 3 seeds.
                   For Universal Transformer (UT) and MEMO the results were taken from Banino et al. (2020)
                   4. Discussion
                   We introduced PonderNet, a new algorithm for learning to adapt the computational com-
                   plexity of neural networks. It optimizes a novel objective function that combines prediction
                   accuracy with a regularization term that incentivizes exploration over the pondering time.
                   We demonstrated on the parity task that a neural network equipped with PonderNet can
                   increase its computation to extrapolate beyond the data seen during training. Also, we
                   showed that our methods achieved the highest accuracy in complex domains such as ques-
                   tion answering and multi-step reasoning. Finally, adapting existing recurrent architectures
                   to work with PonderNet is very easy: it simply requires to augment the step function with
                   an additional halting unit, and to add an extra term to the loss. Critically, we showed that
                   this extra loss term is robust to the choice of λp, the hyper-parameter that deﬁnes a prior
                   on how likely is that the network will halt, which is an important advancement over ACT.
                   References
                   Andrea Banino, Adri`a Puigdom`enech Badia, Raphael K¨oster, Martin J. Chadwick, Vinicius
                     Zambaldi, Demis Hassabis, Caswell Barry, Matthew Botvinick, Dharshan Kumaran, and
                     Charles Blundell. MEMO: A deep network for ﬂexible combination of episodic memories.
                     In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2020.
                   Tolga Bolukbasi, Joseph Wang, Ofer Dekel, and Venkatesh Saligrama. Adaptive neural
                     networks for eﬃcient inference. In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on
                     Machine Learning-Volume 70, pages 527–536. JMLR. org, 2017.
                   Victor Campos Camunez, Brendan Jou, Xavier Gir´o Nieto, Jordi Torres Vin˜als, and Shih-
                     Fu Chang. Skip RNN: learning to skip state updates in recurrent neural networks. In
                     Sixth International Conference on Learning Representations: Monday April 30-Thursday
                     May03, 2018, Vancouver Convention Center, Vancouver:[proceedings], pages 1–17, 2018.
                   JunyoungChung,SungjinAhn,andYoshuaBengio. Hierarchicalmultiscalerecurrentneural
                     networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.01704, 2016.
                   Zihang Dai, Zhilin Yang, Yiming Yang, Jaime Carbonell, Quoc V Le, and Ruslan Salakhut-
                     dinov. Transformer-xl: Attentive language models beyond a ﬁxed-length context. arXiv
                     preprint arXiv:1901.02860, 2019.
                   Mostafa Dehghani, Stephan Gouws, Oriol Vinyals, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Luk    asz Kaiser.
                     Universal transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.03819, 2018.
                                                             7
                                                          Banino, Balaguer, Blundell
                       J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei. ImageNet: A Large-Scale
                         Hierarchical Image Database. In CVPR09, 2009.
                       Alex Graves. Adaptive computation time for recurrent neural networks. arXiv preprint
                         arXiv:1603.08983, 2016.
                       Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for
                         image recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
                         recognition, pages 770–778, 2016.
                       Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv
                         preprint arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
                       Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Jason Weston, Rob Fergus, et al. End-to-end memory networks. In
                         Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 2440–2448, 2015.
                       Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N
                         Gomez, Luk     asz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In Advances
                         in neural information processing systems, pages 5998–6008, 2017.
                       Petar Veliˇckovi´c, Rex Ying, Matilde Padovano, Raia Hadsell, and Charles Blundell. Neural
                         execution of graph algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.10593, 2019.
                       Jason Weston, Antoine Bordes, Sumit Chopra, Alexander M Rush, Bart van Merrinboer,
                         Armand Joulin, and Tomas Mikolov. Towards AI-complete question answering: A set of
                         prerequisite toy tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.05698, 2015.
                       Ronald J Williams. Simple statistical gradient-following algorithms for connectionist rein-
                         forcement learning. Machine learning, 8(3-4):229–256, 1992.
                       Adams Wei Yu, Hongrae Lee, and Quoc V Le. Learning to skim text. arXiv preprint
                         arXiv:1704.06877, 2017.
                                                                           8
                                                           Ponder Net: Learning to Ponder
                         Appendix A. Comparison to ACT
                         PonderNet builds on the ideas introduced in Adaptive Computation Time (ACT; Graves,
                         2016). The main contribution of this paper is to reformulate how the network learns to halt
                         in a probabilistic way. This has consequences in all aspects of the model, including: the
                         architecture and forward computation; the loss used to train the network; the deployment
                         of the model; and the limitation of how multiple pondering modules can be combined. We
                         explain in more detail all these diﬀerences below.
                         A.1 Forward computation
                         PonderNet’s step function (that is computed on every step) is identical to the one proposed
                         in ACT. Theybothassumeamappingy ,h                         , λ   =s(x,h ). Themaindiﬀerencebetween
                                                                           n    n+1    n            n
                         ACTandPonderNet’s forward computation is how the halting node λn is used.
                                                                                                                              P
                             In ACT, the network is unrolled for a number of steps N                          =min{N :           N λ ≥
                                                                                                        ACT                      n=1 n
                         1−}. ACT’s halting nodes learn to predict the overall probability that the network halted
                         at step n, so that λ = p . The value of the halting node in the last step is replaced with
                                                  n      n                      P
                         a remainder quantity R = λ             =p =1− N−1λn. In ACT it would not make sense to
                                                             N       N             n=1
                         unroll the network for a larger number of steps than NACT because the sum of probabilities
                         of halting would be > 1. When training ACT, higher values of N are not necessarily
                         better, and N is being determined (and learnt) via the halting node λ . In PonderNet, any
                                                                                                                 n
                         suﬃciently high value of N can be used, and the unroll length of the network at training
                         is distinguished from the learning of the halting policy (which is most critical for saving
                         computation when deployed at evaluation).
                             The output of ACT is not treated probabilistically but as a weighted average yˆ                              =
                         P                                                                                                          ACT
                            NACT yˆ λ     over the outputs at each step. The halting, as well as the output, are com-
                            n=1     n n
                         puted identically for training and evaluation. In PonderNet, the output is probabilistic. In
                         training, we compute the output and halting probabilities across many steps so that we can
                         compute a weighted average of the loss. In evaluation, the network returns its prediction
                         as soon as a halt state is sampled.
                             Finally, ACT considers the case of sequential data, where the step function can ponder
                         dynamically for each new item in the input sequence. Given the introduction of attention
                         mechanisms in the recent years (e.g. Transformers; Vaswani et al., 2017) that can process
                         arrays with dynamic shapes, we suggest that pondering should be done holistically instead
                         of independently for each item in the sequence. This can be useful in learning e.g. how
                         many message-passing steps to do in a graph network (Veliˇckovi´c et al., 2019).
                         A.2 Training loss
                         ACT proposes a heuristic training loss that combines two intuitive costs: the accuracy of
                         the model, and the cost of computation. These two costs are in diﬀerent units, and not
                         easily comparable. Since N                is not diﬀerentiable with respect to λn, ACT utilizes the
                                                   P        ACT
                         remainder R = 1 −            N−1 as a proxy for minimizing the total number of computational
                                                      n=1
                         steps. This is unlike in PonderNet, where the expected number of steps can be computed
                                                                P
                         (and diﬀerentiated) exactly as            N np .
                                                                   n=1     n
                                                                                  9
                                       Banino, Balaguer, Blundell
                  In PonderNet, however, we propose that naively minimizing the number of steps (subject
                to good performance) is not necessarily a good objective. Instead, we propose that matching
                a prior halting distribution has multiple beneﬁts: a) it provides an incentive for exploring
                alternative halting strategies; b) it provides robustness of the learnt step function, which
                may improve generalization; c) the KL is in same units as information-theoretic losses such
                as cross-entropy; and d) it provides an incentive to not ponder for longer than the prior.
                  NotethatinPonderNet, wecomputethelossforeverypossiblenumberofcomputational
                steps, and then minimize the expectation (weighted average) over those. This is unlike
                in ACT where the expectation is taken over the predictions, and a loss is computed by
                comparing the average prediction with the target. This has the consequence that combining
                multiple networks is easier in ACT than in PonderNet. One could easily chain multiple
                ACTmodules next to each other, and the size of the network during training would grow
                linearly with the number of modules. However, the network size when chaining PonderNet
                modules grows exponentially because the loss would need to be estimated conditioned on
                each PonderNet module halting at each step.
                  InPonderNetwehaveintroducedtwolosshyper-parametersλp andβ,incomparisontoa
                single hyper-parameter τ in ACT that trades-oﬀ accuracy with computational complexity.
                We note that, while τ and β are superﬁcially similar (they both apply a weight to the
                regularization term), their eﬀect is not equivalent because the regularization of ACT and
                PonderNet have diﬀerent interpretation.
                A.3 Evaluation
                ACT’s predictions are computed identically during training and evaluation. In both con-
                texts, the maximum number of steps NACT is determined based on the inputs, and the
                prediction is computed as a weighted average over the predictions in all steps. In Ponder-
                Net, training and evaluation are performed diﬀerently. During evaluation, the network halts
                probabilistically by sampling Λ , and either outputs the current prediction or performs an
                                         n
                additional computational step. During training, we are not interested in the predictions per
                se but in the expected loss over steps, and so estimate this up to a maximum number of
                steps N (the higher the better). This estimate will improve with higher probability that the
                network has halted at some point during the ﬁrst N steps (i.e. the cumulative probability
                of halting).
                Appendix B. Parity.
                B.1 Training and evaluation details
                For this experiment we used the Parity task as explained by Graves (2016).
                  All the models used the same architecture, a simple RNN with a single hidden layer con-
                taining 128 tanh units and a single logistic sigmoid output unit. All models were optimized
                using Adam (Kingma and Ba, 2014), with learning rate ﬁxed to 0.0003. The networks were
                trained with binary cross-entropy loss to predict the corresponding target, 1 if there was an
                odd number of ones and 0 if there was an even number of ones. We used minibatches of
                size 128. For both architectures the weights were optimised using Adam (Kingma and Ba,
                2014), with learning rate ﬁxed to 0.0003. For PonderNet we sampled uniformly 10 values
                                                   10
                       Ponder Net: Learning to Ponder
          of λp in the range (0, 1]. For ACT we sampled uniformly 19 values of τ in the range [2e-4,
          2e-2] and we added also 0, which correspond to not penalising the halting unit at all. For
          both ACT and Ponder, N was set to 20. For PonderNet β was ﬁxed to 0.01
          Appendix C. bAbI.
          C.1 Training and evaluation details
          For this experiment we used the English Question Answer dataset Weston et al. (2015). We
          use the training and test datasets that they provide with the following pre-processing:
           • All text is converted to lowercase.
           • Periods and interrogation marks were ignored.
           • Blank spaces are taken as word separation tokens.
           • Commas only appear in answers, and they are not ignored. This means that, e.g.
            for the path ﬁnding task, the answer ’n,s’ has its own independent label from the
            answer ’n,w’. This also implies that every input (consisting of ’query’ and ’stories’)
            corresponds to a single answer throughout the whole dataset.
           • All the questions are stripped out from the text and put separately (given as ”queries”
            to our system).
           Attraining time, we sample a mini-batch of 64 queries from the training dataset, as well
          as its corresponding stories (which consist of the text prior to the question). As a result, the
          queries are a matrix of 128×11 tokens, and sentences are of size 128×320×11, where 128
          is the batch size, 320 is the max number of stories, and 11 is the max sentence size. We pad
          with zeros every query and group of stories that do not reach the max sentence and stories
          size. For PonderNet, stories and query are used as their naturally corresponding inputs in
          their architecture. The details of the network architecture are described in Section C.2.
           After that mini-batch is sampled, we perform one optimization step using Adam Kingma
          and Ba (2014). We also performed a search on hyperparameters to train on bAbI, with
          ranges reported on Table 4. The network was trained for 2e4 epochs, each one formed by
          100 batch updates.
           For evaluation, we sample a batch of 10,000 elements from the dataset and compute
          the forward pass in the same fashion as done in training. With that, we compute the mean
          accuracy over those examples, as well as the accuracy per task for each of the 20 tasks of
          bAbI. We report average values and standard deviation over the best 5 hyper parameters
          we used.
           For MEMO the results were taken from Banino et al. (2020) and for Universal trans-
          former we used the results in Dehghani et al. (2018).
          C.2 Transformer architecture and hyperparameters
          WeusethesamearchitectureasdescribedinDehghanietal.(2018). Moreconcretely, weuse
          the implementation and hyperparameters described as ’universal transformer small’ that is
                               11
                                              Banino, Balaguer, Blundell
                  available at https://bit.ly/3frofUI. For completeness, we describe the hyperparameters
                  used on Table 3.
                     We also performed a search on hyperparameters to train on our tasks, with ranges
                  reported on Table 4.
                                  Parameter name                       Value
                                  Optimizer algorithm                  Adam
                                  Learning rate                         3e-4
                                  Input embedding size                   128
                                  Attention type              as in Vaswani et al. (2017)
                                  Attention hidden size                  512
                                  Attention number of heads               8
                                  Transition function               MLP(1 Layer)
                                  Transition hidden size                 128
                                  Attention dropout rate                 0.1
                                  Activation function                  RELU
                                  N                                      10
                                  β                                     0.01
                                     Table 3: Hyperparameters used for bAbI experiments.
                                          Parameter name             Value
                                          Attention hidden size    {128, 512}
                                          Transition hidden size   {128, 512}
                                          λp                     uniform(0, 1.0]
                          Table 4: Hyperparameters ranges used to search over with PonderNet on bAbI.
                  Appendix D. Paired Associative Inference
                  D.1 PAI - Task details
                  For this task we used the dataset published in Banino et al. (2020), also the task is available
                  at https://github.com/deepmind/deepmind-research/tree/master/memo
                     To build the dataset, Banino et al. (2020) started with raw images from the ImageNet
                  dataset (Deng et al., 2009), which were embedded using a pre-trained ResNet (He et al.,
                  2016), resulting in embeddings of size 1000. Here we are focusing on the dataset with
                  sequences of length three (i.e. A−B−C) items, which is composed of 1e6 training images,
                  1e5 evaluation images and 2e5 testing images.
                  A single entry in the batch is built by selecting N = 16 sequences from the relevant pool
                  (e.g. training) and it’s composed by three items:
                     • a memory,
                     • a query,
                     • a target.
                                                            12
                                            Ponder Net: Learning to Ponder
                      Each memorycontent is created by storing all the possible pair wise association between
                  the items in the sequence, e.g. A B and B C , A B and B C , ..., A B       and B C .
                                                   1 1       1 1    2 2       2 2       N N        N N
                  With N = 16, this process results in a memory with M = 32 rows each one with 2
                  embeddings of size 1000.
                  Each query is composed of 3 images, namely:
                      • the cue
                      • the match
                      • the lure
                  Thecue(e.g. A ) and the match (e.g. C ) are images extracted from the sequence; whereas
                                 1                      1
                  the lure is an image from the same memory content but from a diﬀerent sequence (e.g. C7).
                  There are two types of queries - “direct” and “indirect”. In “direct” queries the cue and the
                  match are sampled from the same memory slot. For example, if the sequence is A1 - B1 -
                  C , then an example of direct query would be, A (cue) - B (match) - B   (lure). More of
                    1                                            1         1            12
                  interests here is the case of “indirect” queries, as they require an inference across multiple
                  facts stored at diﬀerent location in memory. For instance, if we consider again the previous
                  example sequence: A - B - C , then an example of inference trial would be A (cue) - C
                                      1    1    1                                            1          1
                  (match) - C (lure).
                              6
                      The queries are presented to the network as a concatenation of three image embedding
                  vectors (the cue, the match and the lure), that is a 3 × 1000 dimensional vector. The cue
                  is always placed in the ﬁrst position in the concatenation, but to avoid any trivial solution,
                  the position of the match and lure are randomized. It is worth noting that the lure image
                  always has the same position in the sequence (e.g. if the match image is a C the lure is also
                  a C) but it is randomly drawn from a diﬀerent sequence that is also present in the current
                  memory. This way the task can only be solved by appreciating the correct connection
                  between the images, and this need to be done by avoiding the interference coming for other
                  items in memory. For each entry in the batch we generated all possible queries that the
                  current memory store could support and then one was selected at random. Finally, the
                  batch was balanced, i.e. half of the elements were direct queries and the other half was
                  indirect. Finally, the targets represent the ImageNet class-ID of the matches.
                  To summarize, for each entry in each batch:
                      • Memory was of size 32∗2∗1000
                      • Queries were of size 1 ∗ 3 ∗ 1000
                      • Target was of size 1
                  D.2 PAI - Architecture details
                  We used an architecture similar to Universal Transformers (Dehghani et al., 2018, UT),
                  but we augmented the transformer with a memory as in Dai et al. (2019). The number
                  of layers in the encoder and the decoder was learnt, but constrained to be the same. This
                  number was identiﬁed as the “pondering time” in our PonderNet architecture. Also, we set
                  an upper bound N to the number of layers. The initial state h was a learnt embedding of
                                                                              0
                                                             13
                                                       Banino, Balaguer, Blundell
                      the input. On each step, the state was updated by applying the encoder layer once, that
                      is: h    =encoder(h ). Note that in this case PonderNet only received information about
                           n+1               n
                      the inputs through its state. The prediction was computed by applying the decoder layer
                      an equal number of times to the pondering step, that is yˆ          =decoder(...(decoder(h        )).
                                                                                     n+1                            n+1
                      With this architecture, PonderNet was able to optimize how many times to apply the
                      encoder and the decoder layers to improve its performance in this task.
                         The weights were optimised using Adam (Kingma and Ba, 2014), using polynomial
                      weight decay with a maximum learning rate of 0.0003 and learning rate linear warm-up for
                      the ﬁrst epoch. The mini-batch size was of size 128. For completeness, we describe the
                      hyperparameters used on Table 5. We also performed a search on hyperparameters to train
                      on our tasks, with ranges reported on Table 6.
                                         Parameter name                              Value
                                         Optimizer algorithm                         Adam
                                         Input embedding size                         256
                                         Attention type                   as in Vaswani et al. (2017)
                                         Attention hidden size                        512
                                         Attention number of heads                      8
                                         Transition function                    MLP(2 Layers)
                                         Transition hidden size                       128
                                         Attention dropout rate                        0.1
                                         β                                            0.01
                                             Table 5: Hyperparameters used for PAI experiments.
                                                  Parameter name                  Value
                                                  Attention hidden size         {256, 512}
                                                  Transition hidden size       {128, 1024}
                                                  λp                          uniform(0, 0.5]
                                                  N                                [7, 10]
                                Table 6: Hyperparameters ranges used to search over with PonderNet on PAI.
                      D.3 PAI - Results based on query type
                      The result reported below in Table 7 are from the evaluation set at the end of training.
                      Each evaluation set contains 600 items.
                                                 Table 7: Paired Associative - length 3: A-B-C
                                                  Trial   MEMO           UT       PonderNet
                                                  Type
                                                  A-B     99.82(0.30)    97.43    98.01(2.39)
                                                  B-C     99.76(0.38)    98.28    97.43(1.97)
                                                  A-C     98.26(0.67)    85.60    97.86(3.78)
                                                                       14
                       Ponder Net: Learning to Ponder
           For MEMO and for Universal transformer the results were taken from Banino et al.
          (2020).
                               15
                        Banino, Balaguer, Blundell
          Appendix E. Broader impact statement
          In this work we introduced PonderNet, a new method that enables neural networks to adapt
          their computational complexity to the task they are trying to solve. Neural networks achieve
          state of the art in a wide range of applications, including natural language processing,
          reinforcement learning, computer vision and more. Currently, they require much time,
          expensive hardware and energy to train and to deploy. They also often fail to generalize
          and to extrapolate to conditions beyond their training.
           PonderNetexpandsthecapabilities of neural networks, by letting them decide to ponder
          for an indeﬁnite amount of time (analogous to how both humans and computers think). This
          can be used to reduce the amount of compute and energy at inference time, which makes it
          particularly well suited for platforms with limited resources such as mobile phones. Addi-
          tionally, our experiments show that enabling neural networks to adapt their computational
          complexity has also beneﬁts for their performance (beyond the computational requirements)
          whenevaluatingoutsideofthetrainingdistribution, whichisoneofthelimitingfactorswhen
          applying neural networks for real-world problems.
           Weencourageotherresearchers to pursue the questions we have considered on this work.
          We believe that biasing neural network architectures to behave more like algorithms, and
          less like “ﬂat” mappings, will help develop deep learning methods to their the full potential.
                               16
