                                                                                                                                        Neuron
                                                                                                            Perspective
                Figure 5. A Canonical Microcircuit for Predictive Coding
                Left: the canonicalmicrocircuitbasedonHaeuslerandMaass(2007),inwhichwehaveremovedinhibitorycellsfromthedeeplayersbecausetheyhaveverylittle
                interlaminar connectivity. The numbers denote connection strengths (mean amplitude of PSPs measured at soma in mV) and connection probabilities (in
                parentheses)accordingtoThomsonetal.(2002).Right:theproposedcorticalmicrocircuitforpredictivecoding,inwhichthequantitiesofthepreviousﬁgurehave
                been associated with various cell types. Here, prediction error populations are highlighted in pink. Inhibitory connections are shown in red, while excitatory
                connectionsareinblack.Thedottedlinesrefertoconnectionsthatarenotpresentinthemicrocircuit ontheleft(butseeFigure2).Inthisscheme,expectations
                (about causes and states) are assigned to (excitatory and inhibitory) interneurons in the supragranular layers, which are passed to infragranular layers. The
                corresponding prediction errors occupy granular layers, while superﬁcial pyramidal cells encode prediction errors that are sent forward to the next hierarchical
                level. Conditional expectations and prediction errors on hidden causes are associated with excitatory cell types, while the corresponding quantities for hidden
                states are assignedtoinhibitory cells. Dark circles indicate pyramidal cells. Finally, we have placed the precision of the feedforward prediction errors against the
                superﬁcialpyramidalcells.Thisquantitycontrolsthepostsynapticsensitivityorgainto(intrinsicandtop-down)presynapticinputs.Wehavepreviouslydiscussed
                this in terms ofattentionalmodulation,whichmaybeintimatelylinkedtothesynchronizationofpresynapticinputsandensuingpostsynapticresponses(Feldman
                and Friston, 2010; Fries et al., 2001).
                2008). In other words, high frequencies should be attenuated      that the characteristic frequencies of canonical microcircuits
                whenpassing from superﬁcial to deep pyramidal cells. There is     have evolved to model and—through active inference—create
                nothing mysterious about this attenuation—it is a simple conse-   the sensorium (Berkes et al., 2011; Engbert et al., 2011; Friston,
                quence of the fact that conditional expectations accumulate       2010). Indeed, there is empirical evidence to support this notion
                prediction errors, thereby suppressing high-frequency ﬂuctua-     inthevisual(Lakatosetal.,2008;Meirovithzetal.,2012;Bosman
                tions to produce smooth estimates of hidden causes. This          et al., 2012) and motor (Gwin and Ferris, 2012) domain.
                smoothing—inherent in Bayesian ﬁltering—leads to an asym-            In summary, predictions are formed by a linear accumulation
                metry in frequency content of superﬁcial and deep cells: for      of prediction errors. Conversely, prediction errors are nonlinear
                example, superﬁcial cells should express more gamma relative      functions of predictions. This means that the conversion of
                to beta, and deep cells should express more beta relative to      prediction errors into predictions (Bayesian ﬁltering) necessarily
                gamma(Roopunetal.,2006,2008; Maier et al., 2010).                 entails a loss of high frequencies. However, the nonlinearity in
                  Figure6providesaschematicillustrationofthespectralasym-         the mapping from predictions to prediction errors means that
                metry predicted by Equation 2. Note that predictions about the    high frequencies can be created (consider the effect of squar-
                relative amplitudes of high and low frequencies in superﬁcial     ing a sine wave, which would convert beta into gamma). In
                and deep layers pertain to all frequencies—there is nothing in    short, prediction errors should express higher frequencies than
                predictive coding per se to suggest characteristic frequencies    the predictions that accumulate them. This is another ex-
                in the gamma and beta ranges. However, one might speculate        ample of a potentially important functional asymmetry between
                706 Neuron76,November21,2012ª2012ElsevierInc.
