                      Figure 1: A graph-structured dataset splits into a node feature matrix and an adjacency
                      matrix. GPIO construct the input array and the output query array to integrates graph
                      data. Note that the node feature matrix can be text and image feature in multimodal
                      learning. (i) Input array: Concatenation of node feature and random walk positional
                      embedding (RWPE), where t denotes the dimension of RWPE. (ii) Output query array:
                      Arandominitialized D dimensional vector used for the graph classification task, and (M,
                                         q
                      D ) for node classification, link prediction and multimodal text classification. The output
                       q
                      query array can be learnable or fixed, and c.l.f denotes the classifier.
                      4. Methodology
                      4.1. Overall Structure
                         Graphdatausually consists of X ∈ RM×C matrix, a set of nodes features,
                      and adjacency matrix A ∈ RM×M, which represents a set of relational infor-
                      mation between nodes. In order to train graphs using Perceiver IO, the input
                      array and the output query array should be constructed by using X and A
                      properly. To handle the graph-structured data, topological information is es-
                      sential. We can divide the topological information on the graph as relational
                      information and canonical positional information. Both two information is
                      essential for the graph-related tasks requiring the use of adjacency matrix.
                      Weproposethemethods(i) output query array smoothing to incorporate re-
                      lational information and (ii) positional embeddings to incorporate canonical
                                                          10
