168 « Unified Theories of Cognition

blocks (b80, 570, 664), but only one satisfies the condition of being
on the table and having a clear top. Thus, the conditions are being
matched against specific elements—namely, attributes and values
of an object—and not against an entire object. Note that the state
also has another element (“tried 076), which does not enter into the
match of this production at all.

If all the conditions are satisfied (as is true here), then the produc-
tion fires the three actions, which put three elements into working
memory. The first element creates a new operator 082, called com-
prehend. This is a new operator, because the <o> in the action
element did not occur on the condition side and hence was not
already bound to some already existing object described in working
memory. The second element put into working memory is a prefer-
ence element that asserts that 082 is an acceptable operator in the
goa! context (g3, pl4, s51), where the goal, problem space, and
state are those determined by the goal condition matching the ele-
ment (goal g3 *problem- space pl4 state 551} already in working
memory. The role of preference elements will be described in a
moment. The third element is an additional attribute and value
( attention yes) to the existing input.

This is a typical Soar production, although some have more con-
ditions and actions. A production can accomplish several sorts of
computations (Newell, Rosenbloom, & Laird, 1989). It is a condi-
tional computation, occurring only when its conditions are
matched. It can modify existing objects by adding new attributes
and values, and doing so in ways that depend on the existing work-
ing memory. It can create new objects and describe them with
working-memory elements, again in ways that depend on existing
working memory. This collection of computational abitities suffices
to carry out the functions of a symbol system (Figure 2-11). The
exception is that there is no way to change the long-term memory.
Chunking (described in Section 4.2) is the mechanism that provides
this capability.

Soar productions have two special properties, compared with
Ops5 and many other production systems. First, the only action
that a Soar production can take is to add elements to working
memory. It cannot delete elements, modify elements, or take other
actions. Thus, the Soar production system behaves like a memory,
in that information is accessed (via the conditions) and retrieved
(via the actions) and the new information in working memory does
