Intendedly Rational Behavior = 405

establish individual variation within the confines of the basic the-
ory, which satisfies the constraints of the task, annotated-model
representations, and the Soar architecture. Selecting these three
may be interpreted as a form of data fitting. What is needed, in any
event, is that the theory encompass some range of individual differ-
ences so that it can predict the feature of the data that not every
individual behaves the same way.

This small family accounts for 980 out of 1,154 (85 percent) of
the observed legal responses,'4 by covering 131 out of the 193 cells
(68 percent) that contain { or more responses (all cells with more
than 6 people are predicted, with one exception, Oyx, Ayz = zx).
Only one response is predicted that is not given by any person
(Oyx, Ayz = Ozx). Frequencies were assigned to the different mem-
bers of the family to produce the fit shown in parentheses in Figure
7-11 (15/20 of the people were assumed in the family because 25
percent of responses, which includes the 10 percent nonrecorded
responses, were unpredicted). Notice that the cells containing the
most and fewest people responses also contain the most and fewest
program responses. Many additional micro-features of the way the
Soar theory fits the data could be given; however, what is shown is
enough to show that the theory does quite well.’

Having seen that the Soar theory accounts for the composite
responses of a group of people, let us consider how it explains the
major regularities listed in Figure 7-7. The extent to which it pre-
dicts most of the regularities is implicit in Figure 7-11—it is just a
question of categorizing the responses and the syllogisms and look-
ing at the totals for and against each regularity.

First, any syllogism whose solution requires an appreciation of
an ambiguity in the premises should be more difficult than one that
does not. This follows directly from the difficulty of representing
ambiguity in annotated models. Furthermore, difficulty should vary
among syllogisms since some are ambiguous while others are not.
To take just one example, consider all x are y, some y are z (this
appears as column AI in the xy-yz quadrant of Figure 7-11). A
plausible mode! of these premises has x’s being z’s, but it is con-

14, Of the total of 20 x 64 = 1,280 responses. 126 were illegal responses or recording
failures, and are not included in data, leaving t,t54 total. The illegal responses were such
things as a conclusion about a middle term (B).

1S. 11 would be preferable to have data for the 64 responses from each of the 20
individuals; however, the published data are given in this composite form.

