Intendedly Rational Behavior = 397

them, given that it uses annotated models.'? Since Soar is an exem-
plar unified theory of cognition, this will be a theory of how humans
do syllogisms. Let us proceed (as usual) by asking what is the
obvious way te do syllogisms within Soar. We can start with the
constraints imposed by the syllogism task itself, then by annotated
models, and finally by the Soar architecture.

At the very least, the task requires reading the premises and
constructing some form of internal representation of them, and then
constructing and uttering a conclusion that relates the end terms of
the premises in a way that is believed to be true. This description
leaves open exactly how the premises are represented and how the
conclusion is inferred and constructed. The use of annotated mod-
els goes some way toward meeting these requirements. The prem-
ises are represented in a situation modei—an annotated model of
the situation described by the premises. As a model, the structure
of this representation corresponds directly to the structure of the
described situation (except where an alternative interpretation is
indicated by an annotation). Thus, it will have symbols in it that
correspond to persons and that have attributes that correspond to
the properties stated in the premises—a person who is a bowler and
perhaps also a canoeist.

There is a potential difficulty in this arrangement, because the
premises may not describe a situation that can be directly captured
ina single annotated model of people with properties. The premises
may be ambiguous, so that any of several different (possibly mutu-
ally exclusive) situations could correspond to the premises. Then
any process that constructed a single annotated model would end
up with only one. Conceivably, the ambiguity might be detected,
but that cannot be seen at this stage. Of course, this difficulty arises
precisely because of the scope limitations of annotated models.

On the other hand, this limitation in scope allows for efficient
match-like processing. Given a situation model, the properties of a
person in the model, or whether there is a person with some prop-
erty, can simply be read off by inspection from the model. The
conclusion, of course, asks about a particular relation, namely

13. This is work by Thad Polk. The particular system described here is Syl-Soar/S88
(Polk & Neweil, 1988}, which has since moved toward a more general formulation to deal
with immediate reasoning (Polk, Newell & Lewis, 1989).

\,
