Immediate Behavior = 249

Types of agreement between theory and data
Parametric: explains variation with experimental parameters
Quantitative: explains mean or typical vatues

Qualitative: explains order, presence or absence of effects
Consonant: assigns explanation elsewhere

No explanation

Contradiction

Constraints on the specification of the model

Posit existence of problem spaces by function

Posit existence of operators by function

Posit specific productions

Posit tasks that create the productions by chunking
Generate tasks that create productions by chunking

Figure 5-2. Types of explanation and prediction.

of Soar will occur at every turn, but this necessary scientific tactic
should not be confused with inherent lack of constraint. The addi-
tional claims are always there—Soar can acquire such a program,
Soar will acquire such a program in the circumstances of the task
being explained, and Soar will not evoke other behavior, available
from other learning, in place of the given behavior. The obligation is
on the theorist to cope with the flexibility of human behavior in
responsible ways.

5.2.2. Types of Explanation and Predictions
Not all explanations of human behavior are of the same character.
First, of course, an architecture is to be used to explain behavior at
different time scales. In this chapter, we are focused on immediate
responses, but in later chapters we will focus on other time scales.
Different kinds of agreements can occur between theory and
data. The top part of Figure 5-2 exhibits a range of possibilities. At
the strong end, a theory is able to deal with the full parametric
detail. For example, it explains how choice reaction time depends
on the number of alternatives being chosen among. Less strong, but
still noteworthy, are theories where the data are quantitative but
where only characteristic values are found, such as means or per-
haps variances. Weaker, but still useful, are theories that provide
only qualitative explanations, even though sometimes quantitative
evidence is available. Qualitative theories predict the existence of
an effect, for example, or that one variable will be larger than

ir

