394 = Unified Theories of Cognition

specific object is absent. This clearly violates the correspondence
principle, but it does so in a way that still permits the model to be
put in one-to-one correspondence with local checking about the
absence of the part. Another annotation is many, where the object
in the model corresponds to many corresponding external objects;
another is pair, which specifies the exact number of correspon-
dents. .

It is useful to think of an annotation as being any proposition, as
long as it is attached to one part of the model and applies to that
part. Thus, the essence of an annotation is that it requires process-
ing only when its part is involved, hence its processing is local. It is
not necessary to scan for all the annotations and treat them as if
they were an arbitrary set of constraints. The simplest forms of
annotations are propositions that refer just to their attached object,
such as optional or many. However, the scope of annotations can
be permitted to increase by letting them refer to other parts of the
model, defined relative to the point of annotation. For example, an
annotation left(chair) requires checking other parts related to the
attached pazt; it also means that in processing any part the possibil-
ity of annotations on other parts must be taken into account. (The
processing may still be limited to relatively local searches, how-
ever, so it may be kept under control.) As the annotations increase
in scope they become indistinguishable from full propositional rep-
resentations. Processing the representation then loses its match-
like character; more and more, the consequences and implications
of the multiple assertions dominate the processing and less and less
do simple matching, scanning, and counting suffice. The important
point of annotated models is the possibility of relaxing the stringent
scope requirements of pure models for the payment of increased
processing, not that there is any sharp dividing line between an-
notated models and full propositional representations. '?

7.2.3, Soar and Mental Models
We are now ready for one of the questions with which we started.
How do mental models, which have emerged as an important con-

12, The distinctions being made on the limitations of propositional form involve the
aumbers and types of variables and quantifiers. They do not involve whether the repre-
sentation looks propositional, for example, by using notations such as (box A) or box(A).
itis quite possible to investigate the issues of models entirely within predicate logics, by
imposing limitations on the forms of logic expressions, right down to where the expres-
sions are isomorphic with pure models. See the vivid representations of Levesque (1986).

