258 = Unified Theories of Cognition

E-productions build up structures (augmentations and links) around
these places and between places. Attention is an operator that es-
tablishes the cognitive system as attending to some region in a given
perceptual field. Once there, the additional input from perceptual
systems and E-productions that are linked to that place continue to
occur within central cognition, so that additional acts of attention
are not required for processing of the incoming perceptual knowl-
edge to continue.

Channel selection requires some explication, for the obvious as-
sumption might seem to be for the attention operator to bring the
new element into central cognition, for example, to link the element
to the current state in which problem solving is proceeding. How-
ever, an element-transfer operation of this sort suffers a major
difficulty. It must be deployed repeatedly in the inner loop of any
activity involving dynamic perception, in order to continually bring
into the current state the encoded image of the perceived world.
More generally, this would make the connection of central cogni-
tion with the perceived world indirect, through a deliberately de-
ployed low-bandwidth communication channel, Central cognition
would be a sort of inner homunculus. Channel selection puts central
cognition in direct contact with the part of the perceptual world to
which it is attending, with an indirect relation to those aspects to
which it is not attending.

The attention operator has primitive capabilities, hence it is an
architectural mechanism. Its search specification is correspond-
ingly fixed in character and basically simple, Corresponding to the
primitive attributes made available by perception. There is abun-
dant evidence in the psychological literature for the simplicity of
automatic search processes for the visual field (Treisman, 1986).
The exact role that the Soar attention operator plays in accomplish-
ing such tasks requires detailed consideration. But even without a
full understanding of Soar’s operation we know the attention
operator, as an automatic process, could not have the ability to
accept and use elaborated high-level descriptions as search
specifications. Such power runs counter to the entire design of the
architecture, as well as it no doubt would to these empirical results.

The attention operator is voluntary. It can be chosen by delibera-
tion, just as can any operator. But attention can also interrupt cog-
nition. Interruption occurs by the architecture having the capability
of proposing the attention operator. The architecture simply makes

