142 « Unified Theories of Cognition

Thus, the cognitive band, which can be defined as the apparatus
necessary to go from neural circuits (the top of the neural band) to
general cognition, requires four levels. It takes us from ~~ 10 ms up
past the level of immediate external cognitive behavior at ~~ 1 sec.

Let us again ask our three questions. First, could general cogni-
tion have been obtained at a lower (faster) level? Again the answer
is aclear no, because of how the levels have been constructed, each
being a minimal system level. This seems true enough in terms of
levels, but it might not be quite true in terms of time. We have now
piled up several system levels and our simple assumption about
how much time it takes in total might not hold true. If all the levels
were somewhat shorter maybe full cognitive operations could be
obtained in shorter time.

Let us examine this possibility a little closer. We have been using
a factor of ~~ 10 for each step up in level and have cascaded three
levels. Suppose we had taken ~~7 as the minimal scale factor for a
level, rather than ~~10. Then the elementary-deliberation level
would be ~~-70 ms, the simple-operations level would be ~~500
ms, and the full-cognition level would be ~~3.5 sec—compared
with ~~10 sec in the analysis above. This doesn't really make
much difference qualitatively, given the degree of approximations
we are working with. It might just about be wiped out, for instance,
if the neural level were really ~~2 ms rather than ~~! ms, which
would place the fourth level at ~~7 sec.

Figure 3-10 gives a nomograph for assessing the sensitivity of our
analysis to the particular numbers we have used, considering the
scale factor between levels, the time of the base-level system (the
neuron), and the critical time limit within which cognitive behavior
needs to occur. The vertical is the system operation time (laid out
on a log scale). At the right, along the horizontal, is the average
scale factor per system level (from | to 12). The fanned-out lines
give the operation times for each level, for the range of scale factors
from | to 12, and these lines are labeled Level 0 to Level 5 at the far
right. A vertical line has been drawn through the scale factor of 10,
which is the assumption we have been using. At the left, along the
horizontal, is the time of the neuron base system (from 0.5 ms to 5
ms, also a log scale). Changes in the base time simply shift the
vertical scale. The locations of I ms, 10 ms, .. . 100 sec are shown
by the isolines on the left. A vertical line has been drawn through
the base-time of I ms, which is the assumption we have been using.

