Intendedly Rational Behavior « 413

comparison holds, processing simply proceeds; but if the compari-
son fails, the index is changed again (from true to false or vice-
versa). At the end, the responsé is made according to the index.
This flowchart represents not just a.way of doing the task, but the
way humans do the task. The factors in the prediction equation
correspond to the time taken by various component processes of
the flowchart, and the independence between the times arises from
the structural independence exhibited in the Aowchart.

Clark and Chase proposed this flowchart to explain the particular
sentence-verification task we have been using as an illustration,
where the sentence is read first and then the picture is examined.
They also considered a second task, namely, where the picture is
examined first and then the sentence is read. They described the
processing in this second task by the second flowchart in Figure
7-12. A little study will show that it is closely related to the first one,
but it reflects the structure of the task of examining the picture first.
in particular, when the person reads the sentence first, the picture
can be examined according to what the sentence says. If it is about
the star, attention can be directed at the star in the figure; if it is
about the plus, attention can be directed at the plus. However,
when the person examines the picture first, the sentence cannot be
read differently, depending on what is seen in the picture, Linguis-
tic expressions require that they be read as presented; otherwise
their meaning cannot be extracted. Thus, an extra stage shows up in
the picture-first case because the encoding can be different in one
more way. This use of flowcharts to embody the theoretical pro-
cessing framework is typical of their use in cognitive psychology.
The example is a positive exemplar in terms of the beauty of their
data, the historical significance of their work, and the sophistication
with which they used the flowchart as simply one element in an
analysis of the information processing that goes on during these
tasks.

7.3.1. Soar on Sentence Verification
Where do the flowcharts come from? If this question does not im-
mediately leap to mind, it should.’” As they show up in the psycho-

17. The question leapt to my own mind some time ago (Newell, 1980c). This is my
second attempt to answer this question: the answer has not changed, but Soar provides a
much better way to demonstrate it.

Liew

