Memory, Learning, and Skill @ 327

will GID come from? It will come from some production that picks
up GID en the left-hand side (possibly in isolation or.embedded in
some larger structure). But if this happens, then GfD will turn out
to be part of a condition of the chunk. That would mean that the
chunk cannot be evoked without G/D being already available—just
what cannot be the case if the paired-associates task is to be per-
formed.

This is what we call the data-chunking problem—that chunks
that arise from deliberate attempts to learn an arbitrarily given data
item will have the item itself somewhere in the conditions, making
the chunk useless to retrieve the item. Normally, chunking acquires
procedures to produce an effect. When what is given is a data item,
not a bit of behavior, the attempt to convert it to procedural learn-
ing seems stymied.

What is going on here is interesting from the point of view of a
unified theory of cognition. At the highest level, the story about
learning and memory has been proceeding satisfactorily. When we
examine the phenomenon of learning in Soar one level deeper in
terms of its mechanisms, however, we find something that calls the
entire enterprise into question. In fact, those of us who were devel-
oping Soar were unaware of the problem for a long time, since
chunking was quite successful and continually exhibiting new and
interesting powers. We stumbled across the data-chunking problem
only when we turned to look at verbafdegmming phenomena. It came
as quite a surprise to us, and especially so when it turned out to be
not just an issue of a bug or a little programming, but something that
seemed of the essence.

Let’s review how we got in this jam. Chunking originates in
psychology as a notion about how people organize data in memory,
and its introduction was one of the earliest events of the cognitive
revolution. George Miller presented the idea in 1956 to exptain why
short-term memory wasn’t constant when measured in bits (the
coin of the realm in the mid-fifties), but was (roughly) constant
when measured in terms of new units he called chunks. Suppose
someone is given the following task:

Repeat back: R, C, A,C, B, S, A, PA

Normaily, the person would miss several items when reciting the
list—the sequence exceeds the normal letter span we are able to
remember. But suppose the person had heard, instead:

sref

