184 = Unified Theories of Cognition

The task in the selection space is to resolve the tie between the
three operators. This particular space has an operator E to evaluate
an item (a move operator). Since all three move operators are to be
evaluated, there are three corresponding applications of the evalua-
tion operator. However, Soar is indifferent to which evaluation
operator is applied first, because it intends to do them all. Thus, it
does not get another tie impasse between the three evaluation oper-
ators, but simply picks one arbitrarily. It happens to evaluate mov-
ing A on top of C first. It gets a no-change impasse, because it does
not know how to evaluate the move using the productions that are
available in the selection space. The selection space is not task-
specific and only knows about applying an evaluation operator to all
tied items and considering the results.

The no-change impasse leads Soar to set up the evaluation space,
which implements E applied to A > C. There could be alternative
evaluation spaces. This particular one is a look-ahead space, which
works only for evaluating operators. It embodies the notion of try-
ing the operator in the original space to see what happens, in order
to evaluate the results, Therefore, the move operator is applied to
the original blocks situation. This might seem to be doing just what
it avoided doing by getting the tie impasse in the first place—
namely, making a specific blocks move. But there is a critical differ-
ence. In the top space the move is in the service of reaching a
particular desired configuration; in the lower space the move is in
the service of evaluating the desirability of making the move. The
structure of these spaces neatly separates out these two separate
functions and generates the search in the blocks-world space im-
plicitly. After making the A > C move, there is only one move that
can follow it. The others are eliminated by the heuristics not to back
up immediately and to preserve parts of the result that are already
in place. Hence, no tie impasse arises, and Soar ends at a state that
is not the desired state. The recognition that it has not reached the
desired state is directly available, so it records that information in
the selection space as the result of the evaluation operator (the —
mark).

Soar then selects the next operator to be evaluated. This happens
to be moving C on top of A, which leads immediately to a recogniz-
ably bad position. At this point, two of the three original alterna-
tive moves have been declared no good, by exploring their con-
sequences. The negative evaluations (—) are converted into

