intendedly Rational Behavior = 409

absence of feedback is evident in the reliance of the search on weak
associational heuristics, with no opportunity for validation. Also,
the errors of semantic interpretation would seem to be correctable
to some extent with learning. Perhaps less obvious, the absence of
feedback affects the possibility of finding a correct method. Rea-
soning with models can yield valid results if the conclusion is veri-
fied in all the models of a covering set. This is a more complicated
method, but not one beyond the capabilities of many of the people
in these experiments. But there is no opportunity to learn that
simpler methods are inadequate and to discover and debug more
complex methods. There are plenty of trials, but no knowledge of
results.

Third, the smail bow we made in the direction of individual differ-
ences can be used to make the point more generally. Unified theo-
ries of cognition must deal in a significant way with individual
differences. Different humans use different representations and
different methods, and the same human also does so on different
occasions. Unless the variety of methods is considered, no close
explanation of the detailed results can be expected. The single-
method approach which is rampant throughout psychology can be
viewed only as an initial iteration in obtaining an adequate theory
for the field. What we did here in syllogisms was only a simple and
inadequate step. For instance, we know there is at least one radi-
cally different method, namely, Venn diagrams, which a number of
people use (especially those technically trained). This is a model
representation of the sets involved, rather than the individuals. It is
part of any complete theory of syllogistic reasoning.

Finally, there is a small methodological story here about simula-
tion. The main use of simulation here is classical. We simulated all
variations of the 12 synthetic individuals on all 64 syllogisms and
accumulated a table of basic performance data (Figure 7-11), from
which we read off the fit to the basic human data and to the various
regularities. However, simulation played another role as well. We
started out by building a high-level version of syllogistic reasoning
in Soar, based directly on the view (in accord with Johnson-Laird)
that syllogisms were to be done by inspecting models. We obtained
a simulation system that did direct recognition by productions that
we wrote. Then we reflected that these productions must have
come from someplace. So we invented a space that would create
these productions as chunks. This is how we obtained the spaces

