34 © Unified Theories of Cognition

Act* and much less complete. It was committed to being more
synthetic, trying to incorporate what has wide acceptance.

Another harbinger comes from the area of reading and discourse.
Marcel Just and Pat Carpenter have recently published a text-
book on The Psychology of Reading and Language Comprehen-
sion (1987) that makes the point well. The book is built around a
production-system model (CAPS), which provides a vertical
integration of what goes on in reading: starting from eye move-
ments, word encoding, lexical access, syntax, semantics, text
schemas, and referential processes. The authors make use of this
theory in all their theorizing, and they derive from CAPS a regres-
sion model for how long it takes to read a text. Most of the variance
comes from word-length and word-frequency effects, but other ef-
fects, such as end of sentence processing, can be identified. Besides
providing an assessment of what enters into reading speed, this
same scheme also provides the basis for understanding issues such
as the difference between Chinese and English, and characteristics
of dyslexia, and to what extent speed reading is possible.

The work by Just and Carpenter does not stand alone. Read-
ing has been intensely investigated for many years. A smail collec-
tion of investigators, maybe twenty in all (Britton & Black, 1985;
Kieras & Just, 1984), have produced a set of slightly variant theo-
ties of reading and used slightly different experimental paradigms.
(For example, Carpenter and Just use free reading with recorded
eye movements; others use discrete reading where each next word
is called for.) Some theories concentrate at the higher levels, for
instance the discourse mode! of van Dijk and Kintsch (1983). An
interesting aspect of this latter effort is that, having been developed
over several years, it is being used as part of a model of how young
children read and perform simple word problems in arithmetic
(Kintsch & Greeno, 1982). Other theories concentrate at lower
levels,

CAPS is a harbinger because it provides a significantly integrated
treatment of its domain. The integration is vertical and not horizon-
tal, but the integration is nonetheless real. CAPS itself is far from
complete. Thus, within their textbook Just and Carpenter treat
many aspects of the area that do not yet fall within CAPS in any
strict way. But these other phenomena—which they are called
upon to include in a textbook—are consonant enough with CAPS,
so that CAPS provides the conceptual backbone of the whole text-
book. This seems to me part of its significance as a harbinger.

