220 = Unified Theories of Cognition

moment, for Soar is a state-of-the-art Al system, and indeed it is
breaking new ground in its integration of learning and problem solv-
ing. However, there is much that AI still has to discover about
mechanisms of intelligence and much that it has to demonstrate
about how they combine to produce intelligent action on complex
and difficult tasks. Thus, the demonstration that Soar can exhibit
intelligence is only as good as the current state of the art. Indeed,
this question must be re-asked continually as Al advances—Soar
must keep up with the art, if we are to be able to assert that it
predicts that humans are intelligent, according to an increasingly
improving view of the nature of intelligence.

Our technique so far to understand Soar as an architecture for
intelligence has been to look at its behavior ona sample of tasks. In
Chapter 2, we arrived at a definition of intelligence as the degree of
approximation of a symbol-level system to a knowledge-level sys-
tem, Thus, we should also examine how well Soar approximates a
knowledge-level system.

The definition of a knowledge system, with its multiform rela-
tions between specific goals, specific actions, and specific knowl-
edge linking actions to goals, shows that no general metric can exist
for the degree of approximation, whether a single number or a fixed
vector of numbers. However, the mechanisms in Soar can be exam-
ined to see how they bring Soar closer toa knowledge-level system
or, conversely, put barriers in its way.

To start, Soar is computationally universal. This is certainly a
necessary characteristic, but it is hardly of singular notice, being
shared by many systems that do not otherwise seem useful models
of general intelligence. As Figure 1-7 made clear, universality does
not address constraints other than flexibility and symbolic capabil-
ity. In particular, it does not address real-time constraints. How-
ever, production systems are a direct attempt to deal with the real-
time constraint. They make Soar a recognition problem solver that
attempts to bring all its information out as quickly as possible.
Chunking is part of this attempt to deal with the real-time constraint
by continually shifting more knowledge to recognition. It is applica-
ble in all situations; this flexibility flows from the uniform use of
problem spaces and impasses, which is a hecessary condition to
being able to approximate the knowledge level.

The lack of a fixed mechanism for conflict resolution is strongly
related to approximating the knowledge level. Its advantage can be

