Human Cognitive Architecture = 155

nents of a social system—the humans—have too much knowledge
relative to how rapidly they can communicate it to each other,'®
There is no way for a social group to assembte all the information
relevant to a given goal, much less integrate it. There is no way fora
social group to act as a single body of knowledge. This restriction
applies to goals as well. Whatever advantages may be found in
reconciling opposed or discordant goals, the limited means of com-
municating about goals and why they exist is sufficient to keep
the organization from ever arriving at a single common basic goal
structure.

Assessment of this constraint would seem to depend on the rates
of communication between agents relative to the size of the knowl-
edge bodies in each agent. In fact, it actually depends on the exis-
tence of an indefinitely large tong-term memory in the human and
the fact that learning from experience and communicating with the
environment are fundamentally the same process. Let the rate of
knowledge intake (or outflow) between the human and the environ-
ment be ~~X chunks/sec. Then this same rate governs the acquisi-
tion of knowledge prior to the meeting of the group that attempts to
share knowledge by communication. The total body of knowledge
in a group member is ~~XT, where T is the total lifetime of the
member. The amount that can be shared in the group meeting is
~~KAT, where AT is the duration of the group meeting. But the
group meeting time, AT, is small compared to T, independent of K,
the communication rate. This same timit does not affect the single
human, who is organized differently—the rate of long-term mem-
ory acquisition is slow compared with the communication of knowl-
edge for solving a problem.

The net effect is that the social band becomes characterized as a
distributed set of intendedly rational agents, in which each agent
has a large body of knowledge relative to how fast it can communi-
cate it—that is, there is limited information flow. This characteriza-
tion hardly accounts for everything at the social band, but it does
account for a number of its salient features.

18. The constraint on communication indicates one difficulty with the use of society
as a model for mind and intelligence (Minsky, 1986). The society-of-minds metaphor is
built around relatively small communication channels, but inside each mind it is not that
way at all.

