432 = Unified Theories of Cognition

properties of cognitive behavior was ad hoc. Especially for a unified
theory, it is important to attend to the in-the-large picture of the
human that it presents, not just to how well it predicts detailed
experimental results. For it should be possible to think generally
and globally about human nature by means of the theory. That
should be one of its important uses (Newell, 1990).

Next, we showed that Soar was a theory of immediate responses,
those that take only about a second. Since Soar was originally
developed to work at the problem-solving level, it was an important
demonstration that Soar also applies at the micro level—that the
details of its architecture are to be taken seriously. We extended
Soar to simple discrete motor-perceptual skills, namely typing. This
reinforced the work on immediate-response behavior. It was as
close as we could get to motor-perceptual skills, since the total
cognitive sstem (P-E-C-D-M) is still underdeveloped.

Soar provides a theory of acquisition of skills through practice.
We showed that Soar still exhibited the power law of practice.
Through a rather circuitous route, we described the Soar theory of
recognition and recall of verbal material. This aspect of Soar, aris-
ing from the solution to the data-chunking problem, demonstrates
how an architecture can be a source of unanticipated conse-
quences. We touched on the Soar theory of short-term memory that
was implicit in Soar, noting that it was necessarily a purely func-
tional theory in contradistinction to most psychological theories of
short-term memory, which posit technological limits. Although
Soar's theory has not been well developed, we indicated how it
provided a theory of the plethora of short-term memories. Finally,
we showed how Soar provided a detailed theory of problem solv-
ing, a theory of logical reasoning, and a theory of how instructions
are converted into the self-organization for doing new immediate-
response tasks. These tasks were another temporal level or two
above immediate responses and demonstrated the temporal reach
of the theory.

These are the range of things this exemplar unified theory has
addressed. Soar has addressed them with varying degrees of suc-
cess, varying degrees of depth, and varying degrees of coverage.
Mostly these limitations reflect where we have had time and energy
to push Soar's development. Still, it is one system—one architec-
ture—that does all of these tasks and does them in fair accord with
human behavior on the same tasks.
