144 # Unified Theories of Cognition

Subject and task Seconds
$2 on CROSS + ROADS 19
S5 on DONALD + GERALD 5.6
$2 on chess position A 6.2
$8 on logic problem 01 RF

Figure 3-11. Residence times for various tasks
(adapted from Newell & Simon, 1972).

band shows the range of scale factors that lead to satisfying the real-
time constraint of simple operations (level 3) before getting to | sec,
given that the base time for the neuron time-constant can vary
between 0.7 ms and 3 ms (slightly smaller than the full range shown
on the nomograph). We see that the scale factors can range from 9
to 11: The nomograph can also be used to see what it would take to
get four levels within the 1 sec real-time constraint. If the neuron
base time was | ms, then a scale factor of less than 7 would work.
The consequence of such compression is that somewhat more com-
plexly structured behavior would be available somewhat faster.
The qualitative picture does not seem to change.

The second question is whether composed operators could take
longer than ~~10 sec to obtainJ<[he basis we have had for an-
swering such questions has now-Geen lost. We have already ex-
ceeded the ~~! sec bound set by the time required for cognitive
behavior. From now on the time limits on performance become a
matter of the individual task and can vary tremendously. We will
take up this issue again when we consider what lies above the
cognitive band.

Third, we turn to the question of the plausibility of composed
operators at the ~~10 sec level. A positive indication is provided
by an interesting observation made some time ago. In Human Prob-
lem Solving (Newell & Simon, 1972), Simon and I noted that, in all
of the problem spaces we had studied, people seemed to take sev-
eral seconds for each step. Figure 3-11 reproduces the little table
that lists the times. They range between 2 and 8 sec. The studies
were not focused on temporal factors, but we thought the relative
constancy was interesting. The constancy was especially striking
since at least part of the complexity was due to the complexity of
the operator just in data-processing terms. The ~8 sec time was for
the logic task, which had complex uninterpreted formal symbol
manipulations for operations.

