Symbolic Processing for intelligence * 173

semantics. To be chosen, a decision must be acceptable. A rejected
decision cannot be chosen, no matter what. If one decision is better
than another (for the same slot) then, ceteris paribus, it will be
chosen over the other; and analogously for worse decisions. Best
and worst are simply the extreme points of the preference ordering
(better than best isn't any better). A choice between indifferent
decisions is to be made arbitrarily.

By default, the preferences that have been generated are as-
sumed to constitute the entire corpus that has to be considered.
Other preferences might apply and might have been produced. But
the elaboration phase ran to quiescence and thus obtained all the
preferences that were available without making some decision
about how to proceed. Therefore this decision procedure must
work with what it has. This is a closed world assumption, but not
one that can easily be relieved.

If the decision procedure produces an unequivocal choice (in
Figure 4-6 it would be that operator 07 should be selected to be the
current operator), then that choice is implemented (07 is installed in
the operator slot of the current context) and Soar begins a new
decision cycle. The context has now changed (07 is now in the
operator slot of the current context), so that the next elaboration
phase can access new knowledge and propose preferences for yet
another decision. In this case, the productions that implement 07,
which have a condition that tests for 07 being the current operator,
would be enabled and fire. Thus Soar moves step by step, ac-
cumulating the relevant knowledge and making the next decision.
For example, starting with a new subgoal—that is, a context con-
sisting of (g, -, -, -)— it might first choose a problem space (g, p,
-, ~), then an initial state (zg, p, s, -), then an operator (g, p, 5, 0).
Installing the operator releases the knowledge that implements the
operator and produces a new state (s’) in working memory, which
might then be chosen on the next decision cycle to be the next state
{g, p, s’, -). Then the next operator (g, p, 5’, 0’) is chosen, then the
hext state, and so on, to move through the problem space to attain
the desired state.

The decision cycle is always the same. Any decision may be
proposed—to choose any problem space, space, or operator for
any of the slots in the total goal context, which includes the current
context, the supercontext, the supersupercontext, and so on. Noth-
ing, except the actual preferences that come forth, constrains be-

