intendedly Rational Behavior = 407

in the next four rows (Azx-Ozx). The figural effect arises in the
theory because selective attention biases the construction of con-
clusions toward conclusions that are similar to the premises. Thus,
a conclusion whose subject is the same as one of the premises is
tried before others, leading to the effect. Neither of these effects
says anything about the frequency of NVC responses.

The conversion effect says that most responses (even errors) are
valid under the assumption that both the premises and their con-
verses are true. While Some x are y and No x are y entail their
converses, this is not true for the other two premises. All x are y,
All z are y (Axy, Azy), for example, has no valid conclusion. But if
the converse of the second premise were true (All y are z), then All
x are z would be a valid conclusion. And the data show that 9 people
and 6 variants gave this response. This effect is probably mainly
due to how people interpret premises. The theory produces it di-
rectly by varying the value of the first parameter corresponding to
whether the interpretation of a premise should necessarily imply its
converse.

The effects of concreteness do not show up in the data of Figure
7-11, because the experiment involved syllogisms only in concrete
form. Moreover, the theory embodied in the system just described
does not account for concreteness effects. The path to doing so,
however, is rather clear. The locus of such effects will be the mod-
els that are constructed. Thus, it needs to make a difference some-
place in the encoding whether the premise is Archers that are bak-
ers or A’s that are B’s. Furthermore, if there are other facts known
about archers, bakers, and their relationship, then these should,
under some conditions, be retrieved and enter into encoding the
situation model. These effects are localized in the language-
comprehension components of the theory and cannot be ap-
proached until that is much more highly developed.

Let us now draw the lessons from this long excursion into syllo-
gisms. First, mental models, as that term is used in cognitive sci-
ence (Johnson-Laird, 1983; Gentner & Stevens, 1983), are just
problem spaces, or more precisely the state representations of
problem spaces. We have provided a clear demonstration of men-
tal-model! reasoning being done in problem spaces, from which it is
manifest that the mental model is the state representation. It is a
model, because that is the nature of the representation. From
Soar’s standpoint, the situation is perfectly standard.

What then happens to propositional representations under the

