Immediate Behavior « 257

lem spaces be selected and entered. In simple, speeded, practiced
tasks, where expectations are almost always fulfilled, such im-
passes will be rare,

BLS interfaces with perception and motor behavior. In the last
chapter we sketched the total cognitive system (Figure 4-15), but
now it is necessary to fill out a few details of the perceptual and
motor processes, and how they operate. When the system is alert
and in contact with the external world, working memory is full of
perceptual and motor elements. In the midst of this continually
changing population of elements exist the elements of central cogni-
tion, all tied to the goal stack, which itself is a collection of elements
in working memory. Perceptual subsystems, encoding productions,
decoding productions, and motor subsystems read these elements
and fire at will, in various ways depending on their individual
nature.

The arriving perceptual elements and the encoding activity are
outside central cognition, that is, inaccessible to it. How will cogni-
tion ever make contact with them? This is not an issue on the motor
side. Central cognition can insert into working memory an element
that is a command to the motor system, or one that can be decoded
into a command. The decoding productions and the motor system
can be assumed to be able to detect and acquire any elements
addressed to them (put another way, working memory acts like a
typical bus). The problem is on the perceptual side. How will an
element not in central cognition become part of central cognition?
The conditions of the central productions have no access to these
elements—they do not even know they are out there. Some kind of
active process is necessary to acquire these elements and make
them accessible—to bring them inside cognition.

The attention operator is the required active process. It can be
executed, as can any other operator, by central cognition. It is
given a search specification, and it finds an element satisfying this
specification from anywhere in working memory. The result of the
attention operator (if successful) is that it switches cognition to be
at the place of the attended element. The attention operator is like a
channel selector. The parts of the working memory into which the
perception systems put their elements (that is, the new perceptual
elements) are organized as topographical fields—as metric spaces
with relations of at, near, far, and direction. The perception sub-
systems (P) deliver information at places in these fields. The

