Preface # ix

transcripts of them. (Videotapes are available from the Department
of Psychology. William James Hall, Harvard University.) Where
there has been a direct advance in research on the examples used in
the lectures, however, I have incorporated the new systems and
results to keep up with the state of the art. | could certainly dono.
Jess, though T could feel myself slipping imo the great forward

As will become apparent, the vehicle forthe thesis of these lee:
tures is a system called Soar, Behind that system is a group of
colleagues, situated principally at three universities, Carnegie Mel-
Jon University. the University of Michigan, and the Information
Science Institute of the University of Southern California. These
tare indeed the friends who have provided that “lite help.” made
famous by the Beatles, that allowed me to get by. They made the
lectures possible. Debarred by my deeply felt obligation to dedicate
this book to Noe! from acquiring either coauthors or full collec
tion of dedications. T have chosen to list them separately on an
acknowledgment page facing this preface. But I need also to tell the
Story ofthat “hte help" and just how much it mattered

Soar has its roots in thirty” years of research on the nature of
atificial intelligence (AI) and human cognition. A number of basic
concepts have been explored along the way, prominent among
them being problem spaces, goal-subgoal hierarchies, weak meth:
‘ds for problem solving. and production systems. These concepts
and theit operational counterparts have become staples of both
cognitive psychology and AL. Soar was created inthe early 1980s by
John Laird, Paul Rosenbloom, and myself as another try at puting
together a complete system that integrated all these elements and
learning (00, as it turned out, (See the preface of Laird, Rosen
bloom, and Newell, 1988, for more detail on Soar's genesis and the
roles ofthe various participants) It was aatural—even necessary —
that we focus the intial efforts on strictly functional aspects, which
is to say, the Al aspects. But the need to east Soar as a theory of
human cognition was always on our future agenda. However much
Soar was described as un Al system, it was compounded of mecha
nisms that had strong, established validity as elements of psycho-
logical theory

‘The invitation to give the Wiliam James Lectures provided the
‘opportunity to pursue the conversion of Soar to a full-bodied psy
chological theory. As the chapters ofthis book reveal, it was also

