414 = Unified Theories of Cognition

logical literature, flowcharts stem from the experimenter’s rational
task analysis. As such, they constitute degrees of freedom for the-
ory, even though there are no parameters to count. They are so
obvious that they usually are not questioned. They represent a
plausible and rational way to do the task. In fact, they reveal some-
thing about the person's response to the demands of the task. As
such, the flowcharts ought to emerge from a unified cognitive the-
ory. Indeed, if we come at flowcharts from the point of view of this
chapter, which is to examine intendedly rational behavior, then we
would naturally ask how humans organize themselves to behave
according to such flowcharts. Thus, to repeat, the question is where
flowcharts come from. It will not surprise you that Soar provides a
theory of the origin of flowcharts. An exemplary unified theory of
cognition could do no fess.

The Soar theory is that flowcharts are nothing but composite,
static images of wanderings through the problem space. A person
accomplishes a task by working in a problem space—that is the
general situation, according to Soar. If the person does variations of
the task, then the paths in the space will vary depending on the
detailed demands of the task and the knowledge available. Integrat-
ing over all the different paths that can be taken produces the flow-
chart. This integration, of course, is produced by the scientist, in
order to represent how the person would behave in many situ-
ations.

Figure 7-{3 illustrates this integration. The heavy line in the prob-
lem space is the actual path that the person takes: MI corresponds
to the first match, CI corresponds to changing index, M2 corre-
sponds to the second match, and EI corresponds to executing the
index. The other possible paths through the space are indicated by
the light lines. The person is generating each path dynamically as he
or she moves through the problem space for each task variation.
The figures show no explorations off the main paths, because errors
rarely occur by the time behavior has become routine enough to be
characterizable by flowcharts.

No data structure exists within the person that is the flowchart
that is being followed, as in an interpreter or plan implementor. As
the person learns, the path may become quite reliable, because the
search control will always say to do the same thing in the same
situation, as shown. But the flowchart has no reality as a struc-
ture—it is the scientist's external representation of the behavior.

