392 # Unified Theories of Cognition

mains valid when some action is taken. The problem arises in ap-
plying an operator to a state to produce a new state in a search
space (which is an action on representations). Let the states be
represented propositionally, that is, by a collection of assertions
that conjunctively hold true of the external situation. Let the appli-
cation of the operator represent an actual change in the external
situation. That is, the new situation is different from the old; it is
not the case that the agent simply acquires additional knowledge
about the original situation, It is often easy enough to associate with
the operator a collection of new assertions that state the new,
changed aspects of the resulting situation that are directly affected
by the operator (that is, are named in its assertions). But what are
the indirect consequences? In particular, what about all of the other
assertions that held of the original situation? Which of them are true
and which false, and what other assertions should now hold? The
frame problem is how to compute the resulting representation, and
the essential difficulty is that, with a propositional representation of
the power of the first-order predicate calculus, there is no way to
contain the consequences of an operator application. To answer the
frame question in general is equivalent to proving an arbitrary
theorem. This is a version of propositional representations being
hard to process.

On the other hand, there is no frame problem for models. More
correctly, the frame problem has a direct and satisfactory solution.
The operators that are admissible in the model simply produce the
new situation by modifying those aspects of the model that are
appropriate. The unmodified aspects of the situation are simply
that, unmodified. Of course, this works only because the internal
Operators represent the external ones, and hence represent their
effects. The avoidance of the frame problem is in part the inability
to represent complex situations (of knowledge), so it reflects re-
stricted scope. In addition, there can certainly be hidden effects
of the external-world transformation that are not captured in the
internal-model operator. This is taken as a failure of the specific
representation, not as a reflection of some special updating
difficulty (the frame problem). Representational error is a mundane
possibility that is always present with representations of whatever
sort. There is no magic here, only the result of accepting limita-
tons.

