Human Cognitive Architecture = 123

cognitive levels and something of their character. Above the cogni-
tive band lies the rational band, which is of the order of minutes to
hours. All of these levels of the rational band are labeled the same,
namely, as task. Finally, even higher up, there lies something that
might be called the social band, which I will have only a little to say
about.

A striking feature of Figure 3-3 is that each level is only the
minimal factor of ten (~~ 10) above its components. Each new level
occurs, so to speak, as soon as it can in terms of numbers of compo-
nents. For the levels of the biological band, this factor is a reading
from what we know empirically, so it stands as a confirmation of
the levels analysis. For the cognitive band, it is more a prediction of
what we will find.

3.4, The Biological Band

We start at the neural level. We have to start someplace. We could,
in fact, back down to the organelle, or even to the macromolecular
band (~~107° to 10-7 sec). But the neural level is the obvious one,
because it is so clearly the technology that is given for the human
mind. Furthermore, we need only a few important facts from the
neural level to lay the groundwork for developing the levels of the
cognitive band. Figure 3-4, upper left, shows a neuron. Since
neurons are biological cells, the neuron level is a cellular tevel, and
it shares most of its properties, both of space and time, with all
other biological cells. The characteristic linear size for a cell body is
~~10 microns (t07* meters). Thus, in a brain of ~1,000 cubic
centimeters, there are ~~10" cells, of which ~10 percent, or
~~10'', are neurons, which has impressed many people as a lot to
work with to construct a mind.

In terms of short-term operation, the neuron is a strong system
level. Its inputs and outputs are clearly identifiable by synapses and
its medium can be taken to be voltages, as measured across the cell
membrane. Its characteristic action is to deliver a signal from the
dendrites at one end of the nerve to the axon ramifications at the
other end. This signal is a neural pulse or spike, shown in the upper
right of the figure, if the distance is more than just a few characteris-
tic distances (cell-body lengths), but it can be simply a dynamically
changing output potential (graded potential), if the distance is short.
Reflecting the immense strides in neuroscience made in the last

