Memory, Learning, and Skill » 353

Shiffrin, 1968). It was a very neat picture, a major experimental and
theoretical achievement.

Good things don’t last—or at least they seem not to in psychol-
ogy. In the seventies came the erosion of this conceptual structure.
It started with the enunciation of the levels of processing (Craik &
Lockhart, 1972). This theory substitutes a continuous scale of elab-
oration for the set of separate memories with transfers between
them. The more a memory is elaborated, the better it is remem-
bered. But it is all in the processing and there is no separate mem-
ory structure. The psychologists approved of continuity in process-
ing on general philosophic grounds, and as the Zeitgeist shifted, the
earlier formulation was often referred to pejoratively as boxology.

By the early eighties, we get the ‘‘Demise of STM’'—the title of
an article by Robert Crowder. Crowder had produced one of the
best integrated books on learning and memory (Crowder, 1976) and
his book, along with that of Ben Murdock (1974), stands as the
major record of these two decades of research into memory. As
Crowder notes, it is not the phenomena of short-term memory that
is in decline—the phenomena never go away, though they can
sometimes be ignored. Rather, it is the demise of the notion that a
separate short-term memory structure exists. Furthermore, it was
not that there was a sharp Popperian refutation—a result that ab-
solutely contradicted short-term memory of any kind. Rather,
sufficiently dissonant and confusing experimental results made it no
longer possible to believe there is anything in the brain called a
short-term memory. Consider the recency effect in free recall
{Glanzer & Cunitz, 1966), which is better recall of the last few items
in a long sequence of items presented for recall in any order. This
effect was long considered a signature of short-term memory, but
then along came long-term recency effects that mimic a lot of the
classical characteristics. Consider, also, the recall of an item after
an interval filled with distractors (the Brown-Peterson effect; Peter-
son & Peterson, 1959), another signature of short-term memory.
The two main explanations for this effect, one involving initial
learning, the other involving retrieval, have little to do with the
properties of a putative STM and much more to do with long-term
memory issues, Consider a central tenet of the STM model, that
storage in LTM occurs as a function of residence time in STM
(Atkinson & Shiffrin, 1968). Here, data directly refute this mecha-
nism. And on it goes.

