60 = Unified Theories of Cognition

application of encoding, internal transformings, and decoding must
be executable at will, or at least sufficiently at will to serve the
Purposes of the organism. It is not necessary that freedom be com-
plete, but representations must be at the service of other activities
of the organism, and hence must be evocable at appropriate times
and places. If the family representation in Figure 2-6 were to de-
pend on real families being recalled or being perceived concurrently
(or, worse, if it required waiting until children were actually born
and died), it would not Pass this requirement. On the other hand,
the representational system need not be in the interior of the organ-
ism, although Figure 2-6 makes it appear that way. A representation
can just as well occur in some exterior field, so long as it can be
controlled—a scratch pad, an abacus, a computer, or evena friend.

This view of representation leads naturally to the following ap-
proach to representational systems. Consider a task for the organ-
ism that requires a representation—that is, that requires that the
organism produce a response function that depends on aspects of
the environment that are not immediately available, Then, the prob-
lem for the organism (or for evolution, it makes no difference) is to
find the right kind of material with the right properties for encoding
and decoding and the right dynamics for the transformation. If
these can be found and brought within the organism's control, then
a specific representational system can be constructed that will play
the required role in doing the task. This is the analogical view of
tepresentations—each representing system is an analog of what it
tepresents. Each analogical view is special—a particular adaptation
to a particular representational need. This approach arises directly
from applying the idea of the representation law,

However, there is a difficulty with this approach. The more capa-
ble the organism (ultimately ourselves), the more representational
schemes are required. In the blocks world, we want to respond not
just to blocks, but to their color and their size, to their stability and
their shape, to the patterns on their faces and the relations between
these patterns. We want to respond not just to properties and Tela-
tions, but to transformations, which move beyond putting one
block on top of another and clearing a block off to whether they're
falling off, to their supporting each other, and their rotations. We
wish to break out into new Tepresentational territory by putting
together sequences of transformations, then giving blocks to other
people, then painting them, and then selling them, then keeping
