Intendedly Rational Behavior « 383

experiments, would be expected to be more difficult (though the
experiments do not seem to have been done).

We now seem ready to examine how Soar, as a unified theory of
cognition, applies to syllogistic reasoning. In the background is the
idea that a unified theory should extend to any domain of cognitive
behavior, hence (why not?) to syllogistic reasoning. In the fore-
ground is the question that has been central to the field, namely, the
nature of human rationality. However, the theories proffered by
psychology for syllogistic reasoning provide us with yet another
teason for considering the domain: the issue of whether humans
think in terms of propositions or mental models. These two notions,
especially mental models (Gentner & Stevens, 1983), play a strong
role in other areas in cognitive science. Neither of these concepts is
part of Soar, as described in the previous three chapters. The addi-
tional question, then, is how does Soar come to grips with major
concepts that play strong roles in cognitive science but are foreign
to Soar?

7.2.1. Propositions and Models

Let us focus on the hypothesis that humans reason by means of
mental models rather than by means of propositions. This has been
formulated most clearly by Philip Johnson-Laird (Johnson-Laird,
1983, 1988b).” The hypothesis is to be taken quite generally, but we
will stay focused on syllogistic reasoning, which is also the task
Johnson-Laird has explored in great detail.

Figure 7-8 gives an example of Johnson-Laird’s mental models
for syllogisms. When a human reads a syllogism, say Some B are
not A and All B are C, he or she constructs an internal model of a
concrete situation that the premises assert. For instance, Model 0 in
the figure might be constructed for premise P1. Each line Tepresents
an individual with specific properties (A, B, C, .. . ), where the
prefixed o means optional. Thus, there is an individual who might
be an A, another who is an A and might be a B and a third who is a
8. The barrier in the model indicates that this latter individual defi-

7, Johnson-Laird has been one of the most active workers in the psychological study
of syliogisms and other forms of logical reasoning for many years (Wason & Johnson-
Laird, 1972). He and his colleagues are the only ones who have provided data in the
literature on ali possible sytlogisms by the same set of people, so that other investigators
can use the data for their own theories, as{have done. Making good data sets available is.
important for the enterprise of unified theories.

pra
