10 = Unified Theories of Cognition

not just a computation of what is fully specified by the theory. The
architecture adds assumptions about the details of processing—the
general specifications for productions, the details of their condition
and actions, how tasks are represented, and so on. Thus, the total
theory is an amalgamation of information spread over both theoreti-
cal media, the general principles and the simutation details.

1.1.3. Search in Problem Solving
Consider a final example. Figure 1-4 shows a little bit of behavior of
@ person playing chess (Newell & Simon, 1972). This display is
called the problem-behavior graph. It is constructed from a pro-
tocol of the person talking aloud, mentioning moves considered
and aspects of the situation. The time moves from left to right and
down the figure. Thus, the first four moves are B x N‘/5, P’ x B,
B’ x B,N x BY’, where the prime indicates the black pieces. The
graph shows that the person searches in a space of chess positions
with moves and countermoves as the steps in the search. The
search can be seen to have a definite pattern, it does not just wander
at random or jump around. The Pattern is called progressive
deepening: search down ina depth-first fashion; then return all the
way back to the initial situation; then search back down again,
following an old path for a while, before either going deeper or
branching out to the side. In the figure the single lines show the
search into new territory; the double lines show where the search
Tepeats prior paths; the initial position is over at the far left, re-
peated at the beginning of each of the episodes (E2, E3,.. .).
Here is a general qualitative theory of this behavior, First, prob-
lems are solved by searching in a problem Space, whose states
include the initial situation (the beginning board position) and po-
tential desired situations (winning positions), all as envisioned by
the problem solver. The search in that space is conducted by means
of operators that reflect the task (here, legal chess moves). These
Operators have the property that they may be freely applied, and ifa
desired state is ever encountered, then the task will be attained.
(Variations of this condition apply in chess, since the opponent is a
source of uncontrolled change in the situation.) This assumption
implies coherent searches in the problem space. Second, attention
is focused on locally experienced difficulties. The problem solver,
in doing something, runs across a new aspect that is not understood
or that offers an opportunity or causes trouble; then he spends

