102 = Unified Theories of Cognition

them. These apply locally to the state at which application is being
considered, hence do not complicate matters with memory and
monitoring demands. In sum, the organization of processing in
terms of problem spaces has deep roots in the basic efficiencies of
problem solving.

2.9. Preparation and Deliberation

In general, intelligent systems engage in both knowledge search and
problem search. This leads to the preparation vs. deliberation
trade-off. It is also known as the store vs. compute trade-off, or
sometimes the knowledge vs. search trade-off (although this ter-
minology is misleading, because both preparation and deliberation
provide knowledge—it is just from different sources). Whatever it
is called, it is a fundamental trade-off for all intelligent systems.

The situation is shown in Figure 2-18. At some point there is an
indication that a response is required. Then two types of processing
enter into determining that response. The system can deliberate
engage in activities to analyze the situation, the possible responses,
their consequences, and so on. In problematical situations, as we
have seen, this will lead to a search for an appropriate response in
some space. The system can also have various responses or aspects
of responses already prepared. These must of course have been
stored away. To use such preparations the system must access the
memory, retrieve the prepared material, and then adapt it as appro-
priate to the case at hand.

Each specific situation leading to a response calls forth some mix
of deliberation and preparation. That mix varies over the ensemble
of total situations that the organism encounters. Overall, the organ-
ism itself can be characterized by its mix of activities—by the ex-
tent to which its response stems from deliberation or from its prep-
arations. Thus, as in Figure 2-19, we can consider a space with
deliberation and preparedness as dimensions.*' Particular systems
are located as points in the space, Actually, a system produces a
cloud of points in the space, corresponding to the preparedness and

21, The preparation-deliberation space should not be confused with the generality-
power space. which plots the scape of a problem-solving system against the difficulty of
the tasks it can solve. This space also exhibits a trade-off, arising from the need to
distribute limited developmentat resources along one dimension or the other.

