Foundations of Cognitive Science = 83

Classical architectural functions
The fetch-execute cycle
* Assemble the operator and operands
+ Apply the operator to operands
The specific primitive operations
+ Store results for tater use
Support access structures
input and output
Historical additions
Exploit technology for power, memory, and reliability
+ Paratietism, caches, ...
Obtain autonomy of operation
+ Interrupt, dynamic resource allocation, protaction

Figure 2-13. Known functions of the architecture.

where there has been a fair amount of architectural exploration
over the years. Figure 2-13 lists the main outcomes of these efforts.
There are the classical functions that all computer architectures
perform. All computers employ a division into operators and
operands. To determine the next step of behavior the computer
must assemble an operator and its operands, then it must apply the
operator to the operands, and then it must store away the results for
future use. This is the classic fetch-execute cycle. The specific oper-
ations available always include certain functions: moving data
around from memory to memory, performing logical and arithmet-
ical data operations, performing tests, and activating external de-
vices for input and output. The actual operations are often much
elaborated to enhance efficiency and ease of use. Implicit in the
data-transmission operation is the support of the memory structure
so the computer can access and retrieve information from it. These
provide the basic functions for realizing a symbol system. Much
that is important about them has been covered in the earlier analy-
sis. Historically, these functions have been included in computers
from the beginning—since it is not possible to build a working
general-purpose computer without all of them.

More interesting are the additions to the architecture over the
years. They have been of two kinds. One arises from the need and
opportunity to exploit the available technology in order to gain
power (operations per sec), memory (total bits available within a
given time), and reliability (mean time between errors); and to re-
duce cost, space, and energy demands. ‘For instance, parallelism,

Noy

