116 # Unified Theories of Cognition
1

vations on the behavior of humans, to wit, on the variety of that
behavior. I wish to avoid judgments on the content of that behavior,
for example, on its rationality or the success of its adaptation to the
conditions that trigger it. I especially wish to avoid involvement
with any internal or structural aspects of the human. My objective
is to ground the assertion that the human is a symbol system on
external behavioral aspects, so that it can serve as a design con-
straint for considering the nature of the internal structure.

To indicate this behavioral character of humans, I will use the
phrase unlimited qualitative adaptation. Clearly, humans are not
infinitely adaptive. That is easy to show. Just pit two humans
against each other in a competition; one will win, the other will
lose. The human that lost clearly was not sufficiently adaptive.
Thus, the variety of adaptations is what is important—their range,
qualitatively speaking. Here there seems to be no limit whatsoever.
What might have seemed a limit, in terms. of specific sensors and
time-bound contact, humans manage to transcend by creating in-
struments and histories. They even bury time capsules so that some
far-future human will have one additional opportunity to behave
adaptively with respect to a past he or she might otherwise have
missed,

This argument has a soft spot, which should be noted. It is an
asymptotic argument. That is, as the variety of functions that can
be exhibited by a system increases without limit, we know the set of
functions becomes the set of computable functions. Furthermore,
we know such a set can be generated only by a universal computa-
tional system (exactly so, since these two notions simply go to-
gether), If we consider systems that produce an ever greater variety
of functions, at some point they must have the structure of a univer-
sal system, a symbol system. A human is capable of producing an
iramense variety of functions and does so in its everyday life. But is
this actually enough variety so that the structure must be that of
symbol system? Computational theory does not yet provide any
useful answers to this question—in part because it hasn't sought
them. In general, however, such questions are hard to answer in
useful ways. [t would be nice to have some theory that helps us
here, but I don't know of any. It is instructive to observe that
computers are in the same situation: to compute any computable
function a computer has to have the structure of a symbol system.
We construct computers so that they have this structure. But need

