Immediate Behavior = 251

1. Single-state principte: one state in a space
Operators madify states (delete/rep!ace)
Elaborations are maintained as the state changes

2. Limited instantiation mechanism: one cycle/instantiation
Independent productions execute in paraliel
A resource limitation, but also a functional capabitity

3. Limited match power: weaker than Ops5
Not satisfy equality constraints on the fly
Not permit (state “A <x>} (state “B <x>} >...
But only (state “A <x> “B <x>)->...

4. Duration of match: depends on object complexity
Complicated because of space/time trade-offs in match

Figure 5-3, Variant microcharacteristics of Soar.

5.2.3. Underspecification of Soar

Architectures, like other large systems, are never completely
specified, fixed, or finished.” Soar is no exception. There is, of
course, a Soar that is the code that exists as of a given date, say 18
February 1987, when the first William James Lecture was deliv-
ered, But Soar is always in a state of becoming. These micromodi-
fications almost never change Soars essential nature, but they can
have important effects on how well Soar explains various psycho-
logical phenomena. Figure 5-3 provides four examples of scheduled
modifications and completions to Soar4, which are also relevant to
Soar as a cognitive theory. These underline Soar’s actual nature as
a family of closely related systems. By extension, they help us to
see that unified theories of cognition will be more like Lakatosian
research programmes than like Popperian theories. There will al-
ways be a certain chameleon quality about them; they cannot be
completely pinned down, for they could just as easily be slightly
different, or exist in multiple variations, Orgon the verge of a be
change.

The single-state principle states that only a single state of a prob-
lem space is kept in working memory while Soar searches the
space. Currently, Soar4 keeps the entire path, adding each state as
it is generated. Soar4 has the potential to back up to any of these

2. Actually, the human architecture itself may never attain a fixed state; certainly
biological entities are not static structures (recall Figure 2-12)

