Memory, Learning, and Skill » 325

exist in arbitrary mixtures, some tied to the historical moment of
their birth and some abstracted from various aspects of that mo-
ment, including the temporal. Furthermore, various kinds of mixed
dependence can show up above the level of the individual chunk—
for example, prior episodic information may be remembered and
then used by deliberate analogical means in solving a current task.
Soar can behave in these ways too, but this is a property of the
spaces and impasses that obtain and not just of the chunks.

Many points can be made from this brief discussion of the distinc-
tion between episodic and semantic memory. First, it is important
to be able to use a unified theory of cognition to answer questions
that have been raised about the nature of human memory. In this
regard, we have sketched a qualitative answer but have not gone
back to the original data to see how satisfactory the story is in
detail. Second, a unified theory must contain the answer to the
question of the basic nature of the episodic/semantic distinction.
One does not add new information to the theory to obtain it. One
simply goes to the theory and reads out the solution. In fact, there
may be still other ways in which both episodic and semantic mem-
ory can be encoded in Soar, ways that we have simply not discov-
ered.> Third, the solution that the Soar architecture proposes has
elements of novelty. It does not just point to one of the alternative
schemes that exist in the current literature. This is what I meant at
the beginning of the chapter about there being more things in an
architecture than are dreamt of in theory. Very few of the pos-
sibilities for how to handle episodic and semantic memory are avail-
able upon direct thought—from the top down, so to speak. They
can only be discovered by examining essentially complete architec-
tures. Fourth, the answer to this episodic-semantic question occurs
within a total context of other processing mechanisms. On the sup-
portive side, this solution already fits within a theory that agrees
with many other aspects of human behavior. So it instantly gains
plausibility in a number of ways.

Finally, the solution here is the solution of this unified theory of
cognition. Any other unified theory will also provide mechanisms
for remembering both episodic and semantic information. These
could look the same, similar, or quite different.

5. A recent treatment of this topic can be found in Rosenbloom, Newell, and Laird
(1989),

we

”

wy
