154 « Unified Theories of Cognition

evolution requires predicting the behavior of systems at the time
scale of their lives.!7

Another instructive example is found by going up even above the
evolutionary band, say to ~~10'* to ~~10! sec, which we might
call the astronomical level. Here one seems to get again a strong
level—there is a reasonable astrophysics of the heavens. It is clear
why such a reimposition of strong levels can occur. The intelligence
at our level simply does not command enough energy to make any
difference at this higher level. The disruptive effects that we intelli-
gent humans can inject into the levels just above us are no longer of
any moment with another factor of a thousand in scale. Blow up the
earth and the heavens will not blink.

The other side of the coin is why there should be a social band.
Why shouldn’t the intendedly rational level just extend upward?
Why shouldn’t rationality just get better and better, with increas-
ingly available time? [t would seem that rationality would dictate
that—or at least intend it. The more time available the closer it
could come to realizing a higher degree of rationality.

Before we may conjecture an answer, the situation must be de-
lineated. As the time scale increases from days to weeks to months,
the systems involved become social. They comprise multiple indi-
viduals in interaction. Humans do not lead solitary lives at the level
of days and above. Thus, the system just above the rational level is
the social face-to-face group and it moves up to encompass more
distal organizations as the time scale increases further. The issue of
continued upward extension and perfection of rationality is whether
groups can be described as knowledge-level systems—as a single
body of knowledge with a set of goals—such that the group’s be-
havior is explainable and predictable by its use of knowledge in the
service of its goals. In addition, the approximation should become
better as more time becomes available.

That rationality fails for groups we all know directly from our
own experience. The kernel of the reason appears to be the small
bandwidth of communication between human beings. The compo-

17. One must admit other factors as weil, such as the statistical character of mutation
and the fact that genetic structure (on which mutation operates) determines performing
structure (on which selection operates) by very indirect means.

