446 = Unified Theories of Cognition

Various factors could make reading speed faster or slower. There
is extra time at the end of the sentence (inspecting the figure indi-
cates a couple of operators’ worth, for ~120 ms), arising from the
refiring of comprehension operators as their expectations become
satisfied. This is in agreement with much psychological analysis,
which puts the time in the ballpark of ~100 ms (Just & Carpenter,
1987). The delay slows reading down, though not very much. Some
comprehension operators take longer than minimal time, which
would also slow reading down. On the other hand, we have not
taken into account the issue of whether there would really have to
be read-word or install-node operators in series with comprehend,
or whether they can in part run along concurrently with comprehen-
sion operators. That depends on the details of the P-E-C-D-M struc-
ture. The P-E-C structure will make its own contribution to reading
rate in the identification of words, and it could become the limiting
factor with long words. We know from the human data that word
length seems to be the strongest effect in reading rates. If we esti-
mate the absolute upper bound for central speed it would be ~60 ms
per word (one operator per word), or ~1,000 word/min. If we esti-
mate the absolute upper bound for perceptual speed, using ~20 ms
per letter (Figure 5-11), then we get ~100 ms per word or ~600
words/min. The situation is one of concurrent processes and hence
critical-path analysis, analogous to the situation we examined in
transcription typing (Figure 5-17). So the effective maximum lies
somewhere between the two.

Without the perceptual embedding system in place and without a
more extensive development of the language system, such an exer-
cise in inferring psychological phenomena can be only a plausibility
check. If the numbers were way out of line in some respect, it could
signal an important difficulty with Soar. As it is, the various esti-
mates are all comfortably within acceptable ranges. However, the
exercise can operate as a reminder that all of the other psychologi-
cal properties of a unified theory of cognition become relevant. No
sooner is there a theory of language then there is also a theory of
language performance, with all the implications that the experimen-
tal data bring. To mention one more, Marslen-Wilson and Tyler’s
(1980) results about information being available from language com-
prehension within ~50 ms imply that we should expect some sort of
concurrency with the mechanics of moving through the words (the
read-word and install-node operators), or else ~120 ms goes by

