114 = Unified Theories of Cognition

whole apparatus exists because of the demands of variety and vol-
ume. The groundwork has already been laid. I want here to be
explicit about its application to humans.

One weak argument is that humans can undoubtedly emulate a
universal machine. They might do it rather slowly, because they
may have to spend a large amount of time memorizing new states.
But, if we wait long enough, they can perform the operations of a
universal machine. They are of course limited in their lifetimes
{measured in terms of total number of operations they can perform)
and ultimately in the reliability of their memory. But neither of
these constraints is of the essence, just as they are not for com-
puters, which also have limited lifetimes and reliabilities. In short,
technically humans are the kind of beast that can be a universal
machine. With that comes, again technically, all the other proper-
ties of universal machines. The argument is weak, however, be-
cause the imagined type of verification—instructing a human to
be a specific universal machine (say a Turing machine) and then
observing the person’s execution of it deliberately and interpre-
tively—is artificial. It is not an observation on the kind of life that
humans lead. It could be the exploitation of a capability that is
actually irrelevant to the regular style with which the human in-
teracts with the environment.

The more substantial argument is to reflect on the variety of
tesponse functions that humans perform—anot can do, but actually
do. The fact is that they seem to create new response functions all
the time. To adopt the well-worn device of the Martian biologist
studying the human species, what would impress it most is the
efflorescence of adaptation. Humans appear to go around simply
creating opportunities of all kinds to build different response func-
tions. Look at the variety of jobs in the world. Each one has hu-
mans using different kinds of response functions. Humans invent
games. They have all different kinds of sports. They no sooner
invent one game than they invent new ones. They not only invent
card games, they collect them in a book and publish them, 150
strong (Morehead & Moit-Smith, 1959). That implies that people
buy such books so they can develop yet new response functions by
the score. Humans not only eat, as do all other animals, they pre-
pare their food. But not only that, they invent recipes to do it in
different ways. Hundreds of recipes, thousands of recipes—each a
different way to prepare food, hence a different response function.
