Symbolic Processing for Intelligence # 229

in its memory. It is goal oriented because its goals arise out of its
interaction with the environment. It builds its own goals whenever
it can’t simply proceed.

(4) Soar is interrupt driven—another general characteristic of
human behavior. If, in reaching for a pencil at my desk, I knock
over a little picture stand, I reach for it instantly (reffexively we
often say) and may even catch and right it before it topples over—
and then I just return to reaching for the pencil. I have processed
the interrupt without missing a beat. Human behavior is strongly
interrupt driven and Soar behaves the same way. That is what the
open character of the deliberation cycle is all about. Depth-first
behavior and progressive-deepening behavior are natural modes of
operation, for both Soar and humans.

(5) Soar’s default behavior is fundamentally adaptive. Given that
it doesn’t know anything except that it is faced with some task, it
commences to work on that task, even if uninstructed. Like hu-
mans, Soar doesn’t have to be programmed to do something. Its
natural default behavior is not to do nothing. Of course, for Soar to
have a task is for Soar to already have a formulation in a problem
space. So this characterization does not address the initial formula-
tion of tasks.

(6) Soar is serial in the midst of being parallel. There is the serial
central cognitive structure that leads to one operator at a time. But
this is embedded in a sea of autonomous stuff out in the perceptual
and motor fields. Soar clearly has unconscious processing that goes
on, outside deliberately controlled central cognitive processing.
This is just the way it is with us.

(7) Soar’s recognition system is strongly associative, behaving
like a content-addressed memory. From this characteristic comes
some important human-like properties. Soar does not have deliber-
ate access to all it knows. The only way to make an associative
memory work is to put retrieval cues in the working memory and
see what they draw down. There is no way to know for sure what is
out there in an associative memory. Remembering—finding out
what was put there at some earlier time—can be a genuine problem
(for humans as for Soar). But the task can be formulated to try to
search its own long-term memory by manipulating the cues put into
working memory.

{8) Soar does not know how it does things. The learned proce-
dures—all the things it chunks—are not articulable. This property

