Along the Frontiers = 507

story is the discovery that the current match is definitely too power-
ful, since it gives rise to chunks that are extremely expensive to
process (Tambe & Newell, 1988). Thus, we have been propelled
into an extensive research effort to discover weaker matching
schemes that avoid these expensive chunks (Tambe & Rosen-
bloom, 1989), although this search has not yet been crowned with
complete success. A third part of the story is that connectionist
systems lend themselves naturally to weaker forms of matching.
Thus, this research effort has extended to exploring whether con-
nectionist technology admits of matching schemes that could sup-
port Soar (Rosenbloom, 1989). All three efforts are parts of an
extended and still unconcluded endeavor to discover what sort of
recognition match fits all the constraints of Soar. We expect its final
phase to be the modification of Soar to incorporate a new and
perhaps radically different recognition scheme. But we also expect
the great body of behaving Soar systems to survive this change in
operational form—though they will all become somewhat different
in ways that should be theoretically significant.

One lesson to be gained here is that we should view a unified
theory of cognition as a research programme in the sense of
Lakatos, a programme that is to be continually modified as long as
the changes remain progressive.

(5) Create data bases of results. Develop a benchmark mental-
ity—don’t walk away from old data, but preserve them in accessi-
ble form. Then expect any new theory to run on the old bench-
marks—that is, to provide postdictions and explanations of them,
Simply disbelieve, or at least disown, the Kuhnian rhetoric that
new paradigms speak past each other and that progress never hap-
pens at the paradigm level. Be an engineer in this regard, rather
than a scientist. Establish data banks of the best of the ~~3,000
regularities.

Play a cooperative game of anything you can do, I can do better,
Your attitude should be—I have this unified theory of cognition and
I've got to try to make it work on all the phenomena that Sam’s
unified theory works on. Theory replication must be as important as
experiment replication. In truth, we should try to make it a good
deal more important, so that we will gradually build up to more and
more integrated theories. In this respect, do not believe that to
show a unified theory of cognition wrong in some particulars is

“

