Foundations of Cognitive Science » 91

Consider a concrete example. Suppose a man is shopping in a
grocery store on a very limited budget. He compares the prices of
the alternative products for each item he wants. He converts each
quoted price to an equivalent price per unit to make them compara-
ble. And he chooses the least expensive. This is an intelligent per-
formance. It is the use of knowledge that the man has (how to do
arithmetic, the fact that the cost for the same unit shows the contri-
bution of the item to the total cost for a given amount of food) in
service of his goal. If he knew all these things but just compared the
stated cost, regardless of unit cost, that would be a less intelligent
performance. Whether this is an act of perfect intelligence requires

. an analysis of the actual goals of the person and what else he knows

: that he might have brought to bear. Perhaps he knows about calo-
ties and thus could be computing cost per calorie. Then he could
have been more intelligent. He brought some of his knowledge to
bear, but not all of it. Suppose calories are not listed on the items.
Then the failure to compute unit calories rather than unit weights or
volumes is not a failure of intelligence but a failure of knowledge.
Likewise, if the manufacturer has lied about caloric content, the
man gets the wrong answer, but it is a failure of knowledge, not of
intelligence. If, of course, he knows about the duplicity of the
firm—it was just fined for false advertising and he read about it in
the papers and discussed it—then he acts less intelligently if he
decides on the basis of the firm’s claims.

I could elaborate on the example indefinitely (it is my own ex-
ample so no facts of the matter exist). Say we refine the man’s
goals—he is in a hurry, or he really does like a particular brand of
peaches, so the extra cost is worth it—or change what the man
knows—he knows about other aspects of a healthy diet (proteins,
vitamins) and also about linear programming for proper optimizing.
Assessing the intelligence involved in the performance of the task
requires taking into account the actual goals and knowledge that are
operative. This is just the way it is. Indeed, if we know that the man
doesn't know something and we fail to take that into account and so
judge him less intelligent—then we are not being intelligent our-
selves.

This concept of intelligence has many properties that are exactly
the properties that one would expect intelligence to have. A few are
novel.

Intelligence is relative to goals and relative to knowledge. A sys-

