382 = Unified Theories of Cognition

universal, the conclusions given tend to be universal, even in cases
where the valid conclusion is particular (some). It is as if the person
made the decision about the quantifier (al! or some) of the conclu-
sion just on the basis of the quantifiers of the premises. A similar
situation exists with respect to positive and negative signs. Nega-
tive premises tend to lead to negative conclusions. Many errors are
consonant with the atmosphere of the premises.

(5) The conversion effect (Chapman & Chapman, 1959) is the
tendency to transpose premises: Ail A are B is interpreted as also
meaning All B are A. That is (as with the atmosphere effect), a
substantial number of errors can be explained by assuming such a
change in the specifications of the syllogism. This effect has been
interpreted as occurring at an encoding stage; the reasoning itself is
not seen as the source of errors (Henle, 1962). The conversion
effect reflects the general issue in reasoning tests that it is difficult
to separate the effects of language comprehension from the effects
of reasoning per se.

(6) The figural effect concems which of several valid syllogisms a
person will produce (Johnson-Laird, 1983). As Figure 7-6 indicates,
many syllogisms have multiple solutions. Many of these are com-
posed of pairs of the same form but whose terms are in a different
order. For example, Some A are C and Some C are A always go
together, both valid or both not. The figural effect predicts which
order will be produced, as shown in Figure 7-7. The rule applies in
two of the figures (AB, BC and BA,CB), but is silent in the other two
(AB,CB and BA,BC). It is as if the reasoning constructs a chain
through the premises: in the AB, BC case the chain goes A to Bto C,
thus linking A to C; in the BA,CB case it goes C to B to A, thus
linking C to A.

(7) Whether syllogisms are concrete (all actors are bowlers) or
abstract (All A are B) seems to have a pronounced effect (Wilkins,
1928; D’Andrade, 1988). However, the situation is more com-
plicated than just a difference in difficulty (abstract syllogisms being
harder). The content of the syllogism (not just its concreteness) has
an effect. If the syllogism agrees or is consonant with the content, it
is easier to do; but if the syllogism disagrees or is discordant with
the content, then it is harder to do. Thus, concrete syllogisms that
arise in natural situations tend to be easier relative to abstract ones,
where the absence of content provides no help, But likewise, per-
verse concrete syllogisms, such as might occur in psychological

