Symbolic Processing for Intelligence = 225

cognitive architecture. We will see in the next chapter some indica-
tions that the current Soar production match is too powerful and
that some weaker match might give us a better picture. All we need
at this point is that production cycles take ~~10 ms.

The Soar decision cycle corresponds to the elementary deliberate
operation, The elaboration cycle corresponds to the repeated ac-
cessings of knowledge that constitute deliberation. It accumulates
knowledge and uses it to make a decision about what to do. The
Soar run-to-quiescence cycle corresponds to the exhaustive charac-
ter of the elementary deliberate operation. Hence, the Soar deci-
sion cycle is involuntary and automatic. Once initiated, it simply
completes of its own accord. There is awareness of its products,
since they emerge in working memory at the end, but not of what
goes on to produce them.

It follows that the decision cycle occurs at the ~~100 ms level.
Its duration will be determined by the longest production chain to
quiescence. This adds another source of variability to the duration
of this system level—it is not just the sum of random durations of
lower-level components, but the number being summed is also vari-
able. Indeed, the decision phase has the peculiar feature that its
duration can be governed by irrelevant productions that have noth-
ing to do with the task and bear no functional relation to it.

The Soar simple operator corresponds to the sequence of deliber-
ately selected operations. This selection is a serial process and is
the primitive level of observed thinking. It constitutes the acts of
immediate-response behavior. The duration is determined by the
sequence of decision cycles needed to carry out the operator,
There’s a minimum of two: one to select the operator and one to
apply it. Simple operators must take ~~1 sec, although minimal
operators might be much faster if they required only two decision
cycles.

General Soar problem spaces correspond to problem spaces
where the operators themselves can be composed. This is the top of
the cognitive band, just before we enter the upward-reaching hier-
archy of problem spaces piled on problem spaces that is the in-
tendedly rational band. The time for this level is ~~10 sec. The
problem space is the smallest unit of goal attainment; the system
works in the space and finds a resolution. Chunking corresponds to
the continuous shift from deliberation to preparation that comes
with experience.

