230 © Unified Theories of Cognition

is often commented upon with respect to human behavior—as if it
were an especially telling feature with respect to logical or rational
behavior that humans can not articulate their skills (Polyani, 1958;
Mandler, 1985). In this respect, it is worth noting that chunking
does not gain access to the productions. Chunking is done entirely
in terms of the trace that is laid down in the working memory, with
no access to the productions and how they are represented. Soar
can also work interpretively from specified instructions, held as
data structures in working memory, and it can then be articulate
about them. And humans likewise.

(9) Soar has a certain reflectiveness, which arises from the im-
passes. Taking an impasse amounts to stepping back from what was
being done to examine the larger context. Reflection is always pos-
sible for Soar, since the taking of impasses is built into the architec-
ture. Hence Soar is indefinitely reflective. This certainly is one sort
of human reflection. Whether it corresponds to all the kinds of
reflectiveness is unclear. There does not seem to be any useful
taxonomy of the flavors and varieties of reflection in humans.'?
However, it is a strong feature of Soar’s reflection that it is driven
by inadequacy (by impasses) and does not occur as a deliberate act.

(10) Soar is structured to have a very large knowledge base. That
is what the production system provides and the design is for Soar to
have a large number of productions (~~ 10° or more). However,
none of the tasks explored with Soar has dealt with such large
memory, so we can only project that Soar would behave plausibly
under such conditions.

(11) Soar’s immediate temporary environment (its working mem-
ory) can contain a large amount of detail, but Soar is always
focused on some part of that detail, and most of it remains unpro-
cessed.

4.9, Summary

Iterating through the list of Figure 4-24 instills confidence that Soar
is a good candidate for a unified theory of cognition. That is, of
course, deliberate on my part. One wants as complete a picture as

17, But see Maes and Nardi (1988) for a variety of reflections in computationat
systems

