320 * Unified Theories of Cognition

Soar, the task in reading is comprehension, which will lead to
chunks that relate the sentence to its meaning but not to chunks that
relate to the verbatim text. On the other hand, if Soar is given cause
to focus on the surface structure, then clearly the text can be
learned. Learning depends upon what task is performed. Chunking,
of course, applies to all the subgoals generated by whatever im-
Passes occur, many of which are microscopic in comparison with
the grand goal of reading the sentence. Hence, it is entirely plau-
sible that various bits of the text will be learned in any event in
the course of reading.

(5) Rehearsal is the attempt to retain information in the short term
by repeating the material to oneself in some fashion. It has been
much studied, in part because it has been linked to the retention of
knowledge in the long term. In the classic Atkinson and Shiffrin
(1968) model, rehearsal was considered the sole transfer mecha-
nism from the short-term store to the long-term store. This model
was challenged by the depth-of-processing theory (Craik & Lock-
hart, 1972), which demonstrated that so-called elaborative rehear-
sal, which involves substantial processing of the material, does lead
to long-term retention; whereas so-called maintenance rehearsal,
which involves simply repeating the words, does not. The Soar
theory indicates that there will be positive effects of rehearsal if
rehearsal entails tasks for which the information is needed, so that
chunks get built. But if no tasks are performed, if the aim of
rehearsal is simply getting some sort of behavioral loop going, then
long-term acquisition cannot be expected. Furthermore, in accord
with the depth-of-processing theory, the more elaborative the pro-
cessing the better. That is, the more diverse the rehearsal tasks and
the more they involve existing material in long-term memory, the
greater the likelihood that some of these chunks will contain the to-
be-remembered material and will fire within the recall context.

(6) Soar predicts the occurrence of Einstellung and functional
Jixity, two related phenomena in human problem solving. Einstel-
lung (Luchins, 1942) is the preservation of a learned skill that is not
useful in a new environment. If a method is used successfully on a
sequence of problems, then even when it becomes inappropriate it
may continue to be used.* Einstellung shows up not only in longer

4. The new problem must appear amenable to the same method—no one would try to
make a bed by the same method just used successfully to wash dishes!

