Foundations of Cognitive Science = 97

tions do not alter the fundamental fact that the system must search
for a solution and that search tends to become combinatorial be-
cause new errors are committed before old ones are detected and
resolved. Search will occur, whatever method is used to solve the
problem, and the more problematical the situation the more search
is required. Thus, intelligent behavior will be deeply involved with
the processes that determine what spaces are searched and control
search in those spaces. The character of any particular search will
depend on many things, such as the memory available or the types
of search steps that are possible.

The second consideration that implicates search in intelligent
behavior can be called the court of last resort. If an intelligent agent
wishes to attain some end—to find some object X, say—it must
formulate that task in some way. It must arrange its activities in
some way rationally related to finding X: It must do so—indeed, it
can only do so—on the basis of its available knowledge. Even to
seek more knowledge before acting is already to choose a particular
way to formulate the task, The more problematical a situation, the
less knowledge is available that says how to find ¥-—that’s what it
means to be problematical. The formulation of the task that makes
the least demands on specific knowledge is:

Formulation of last resort: If it is not known how to obtain
X, then create a space that is known to contain X and search
that space for X.

This formulation has the feature that it can always be made to
apply. A space can always be found that contains the desired ob-
ject. The less knowledge is available, the larger the encompassing
space has to be, and the more difficult and expensive must be the
search. But the first step has been attained in any event—a task
formulation has been adopted that is rationally related to attaining
that task.

This formulation is indeed the court of last resort. It, and the
corresponding method for working with it, is usually called gener-
ate and test. This method is often deemed too simple to be worthy
of attention. But to ignore it is like the physicist ignoring continuity
equations in fluid flow. It is the very groundwork within which all
other activities are to be understood. For instance, all of the
methods used in artificial intelligence are at bottom search meth-

