Foundations of Cognitive Science « 45

immediately the language of control systems—of feedback, gain,
oscillation, damping, and so on. It is a language that allows us to
describe systems as purposive ({Rosenbleuth, Weiner, & Bigelow,
1943), But we are interested in the full range of human behavior and
response—not only walking down a road or tracking a flying bird,
but reading bird books, planning the waik, taking instructions to get
to the place, identifying distinct species, counting the new additions
to the life list of birds seen, and holding conversations about it all
afterward. When the scope of behavior extends this broadly, it
becomes evident that the language of control systems is really
locked to a specific environment and class of tasks—to continuous
motor movement with the aim of pointing or following. For the rest
it becomes metaphorical.

A way to describe the behavior of systems with wide-ranging
capability is in terms of their having knowledge and behaving in
light of it. Let us first see what that means, before we see how we
do it. Figure 2-2 shows a simple situation, the blocks world, which
is suitably paradigmatic for systems characterized as having knowl-
edge. There is a table, on which sits three blocks, A, 8, and C, with
block A on top of block B. Some agent X observes the situation, so
that we can say that XY knows that A is on top of B. Another agent,
Y, who does not observe the situation, asks Y whether B is clear on
top. We say, almost without thinking, that X will tell ¥ that Bis not
clear. We have actually made a prediction of X's response. Let us
say that is exactly what happens (it is certainly plausible, is it not?).
What is behind our being able to predict X’s behavior?

A straightforward analysis runs as follows. We assume that XY has
a goal to answer ¥ truthfully. There must be a goal involved. [f we
can't assume any goals for this agent, then no basis exists for pre-
dicting that X will answer the question, rather than walking out of
the room or doing any other thing. The agent’s goal (in this case) is
something like this: if someone asks a simple question, answer
truthfully, We take it that if X knows something, X can use that
knowledge for whatever purposes it chooses. Thus, we calculate: X
knows that block A is on top of block 8; X wants to answer the
question truthfully; X has the ability to answer (X can communi-
cate); consequently, X will tell ¥ that block B is not clear on top.
Thus, we can predict what X will do. The prediction need not
always be right—we may be wrong about X's goals, or about what

