CAT VISUAL CORTEX 151

differences, since the striate cortex of the monkey is in several ways
different morphologically from that of the cat. But the similarities already
seen suggest that the mechanisms we have described may be relevant to
many mammals, and in particular to man.

SUMMARY

1. The visual cortex was studied in anaesthetized cats by recording
extracellularly from single cells. Light-adapted eyes were stimulated with
spots of white light of various shapes, stationary or moving.

2. Receptive fields of cells in the visual cortex varied widely in their
organization. They tended to fall into two categories, termed ‘simple’ and.
‘complex’.

3. There were several types of simple receptive fields, differing in the
spatial distribution of excitatory and inhibitory (‘on’ and ‘off’) regions,
Summation occurred within either type of region; when the two opposing
regions were illuminated together their effects tended to cancel. There was
generally little or no response to stimulation of the entire receptive field
with diffuse light. The most effective stimulus configurations, dictated by
the spatial arrangements of excitatory and inhibitory regions, were long
narrow rectangles of light (slits), straight-line borders between areas of
different brightness (edges), and dark rectangular bars against a light back-
ground. Yor maximum response the shape, position and orientation of
these stimuli were critical. The orientation of the receptive-field axis (i.e.
that of the optimum stimulus) varied from cell to cell; it could be vertical,
horizontal or oblique. No particular orientation seemed to predominate.

4. Receptive fields were termed complex when the response to light
could not be predicted from the arrangements of excitatory and inhibitory
regions. Such regions could generally not be demonstrated; when they
could the laws of summation and mutual antagonism did not apply. The
stimuli that were most effective in activating cells with simple fields—
slits, edges, and dark bars—were also the most effective for cells with
complex fields. The orientation of a stimulus for optimum response was
critical, just as with simple fields. Complex fields, however, differed from
simple fields in that a stimulus was effective wherever it was placed in the
field, provided that the orientation was appropriate.

5. Receptive fields in or near the area centralis varied in diameter from
4+-1° up to about 5-6°. On the average, complex fields were larger than
simple ones. In more peripheral parts of the retina the fields tended to be
larger. Widths of the long narrow excitatory or inhibitory portions of
simple receptive fields were often roughly equal to the diameter of the
smallest geniculate receptive-field centres in the area centralis. For cells

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
