50 = Unified Theories of Cognition

have knowledge and goals, such that their behavior is successfully
predicted by the law that says: all the person's knowledge is always
used to attain the goals of the person. The claim, of course, need
not be for completely successful prediction, but only to some ap-
proximation.

It is easy to see why describing a system at the knowledge level is
useful. The essential feature is that no details of the actual internal
processing are required. The behavior of an existing system can be
calculated if you know the system's goals and what the system
knows about its environment. Both can often be determined by
direct observation—of the environment, on the one hand, and of
the system’s prior behavior, on the other. The knowledge level is
also useful for designing systems whose internal workings are yet
to be determined. The knowledge level provides a way of stating
something about the desired behavior of the system and about what
it must incorporate (namely, the requisite knowledge and goals).
Specifications for systems are often given at the knowledge level.
Every level, of course, can and does serve as a specification for the
level below it. The special feature of the knowledge level is that it
can be given before anything about the internal workings of the
system is determined.

Let us summarize by restating rather carefully what a knowledge-
level system is (Figure 2-4). A knowledge system is embedded in an
external environment, with which it’ interacts by a set of possible
actions. The behavior of the system is the sequence of actions taken
in the environment over time. The system has goals about how the
environment should be. Internally, the system processes a medium,
called knowledge. Its body of knowledge is about its environment,
its goals, its actions, and the relations between them. It has a single
law of behavior: the system takes actions to attain its goals, using
all the knowledge that it has. This law describes the results of how
the knowledge is processed. The system can obtain new knowledge
from external knowledge sources via some of its actions (which can
be called perceptual actions). Once knowledge is acquired it is
available forever after. The system is a single homogeneous body of
knowledge, all of which is brought to bear on the determination
of its actions. There is no loss of knowledge over time, though of
course knowledge can be communicated to other systems.

Characterizing knowledge as the medium of a system level,
which is just one system level among many, constitutes a particular

Gy
