388 @ Unified Theories of Cognition

sion in step 10 doesn’t depend on a. But step 9 accomplished ex-
actly the removal of a from the expression. (12) Finally, since the
assumption of step 11 is known to be valid (step 1), its conclusion is
unconditional. This rule is another form of modus ponens, that from
A and A D B conclude B. Step 12 is P3, the desired conclusion.

It is possible to consider a theory of human syllogistic reasoning
based on propositional methods. The sequence of steps in Figure
7-9 seems formidable and one would not expect a human to go
through these in real time. In fact, one would not expect to use this
as a process theory, but rather more as an indicator of difficulty. In
this particular formulation, the proofs of easy and hard syllogisms
take about the same number of steps, but other formulations might
work out better. However, there are additional requirements for a
theory based on propositions. The proof must be discovered, not
just worked through. The proof in Figure 7-9 requires considerable
invention. Also, the proof is just a verification procedure. The con-
clusions to attempt must be generated. These add to the difficulty of
formulating a general propositional theory; however, our task is not
to do so, but simply to illustrate the nature of propositional rea-
soning.

With these examples of model-based and proposition-based rea-
soning in hand, let us examine more closely the nature of models
and propositions. Given the amount that has been written on the
topic, we must be satisfied with a relatively superficial examination,
but the essentials can be brought out. Even so, our main point will
be one that is not often at the center of such discussions.

Models and propositions are both representations. As we saw in
Chapter 2, a system has a representation of some object in the
outside world, when it can encode the object and encode its trans-
formation into some internal object and activity (these being the
representation proper), and then apply the encoded transformation
to the encoded object to product an encoded result, and finally
decode this result to some aspect in the outside world, in agreement
with the external transformation. When the two paths end at the
same point (for the purposes at hand), the internal path satisfies a
representational law. Propositions and models are both representa-
tions in this sense. Both can be used to represent the external
world. Furthermore, both propositions and models can be symbol
structures, and both can be composed so as to satisfy a wide range

