324 = Unified Theories of Cognition

finally brought the contrast between it and episodic memory to
where it could not be ignored.

Making such a distinction immediately raises the question of
whether two distinct memory structures exist, one for episodic
memory and one for semantic memory, or whether only a single
memory exists that somehow encompasses both types of informa-
tion. And, indeed, a small, lively literature exists on the topic {Tul-
ving, 1983). Clearly, a unified theory of cognition must provide an
answer to this question. Indeed, we should be able simply to read
out of Soar its explanation.

First, Soar must say that episodic and semantic information are
held in the same memory—there is only one long-term memory in
Soar. This is not quite the whole answer, however, for we must
detail exactly how Soar deals with episodic memory and how it
deals with semantic memory. Take the episodic side first. Chunks
from selection spaces produce search-control productions that re-
produce the operators that were selected ona prior occasion. Lived
history, for Soar, is a sequence of operators. To the extent that it is
caused to focus on some of these operators in order to select them,
it will remember their selection (as chunks) and be able to repro-
duce their occurrence. Indeed, the right-hand column of Figure
4-18, which shows what happens when RI-Soar is presented the
same situation over again, provided a scrap of such a history. This
form of history has certain peculiarities. It is selective—what is
remembered depends on what Soar is doing with the information at
the time. It is also self-oriented—it is cast very much in terms of
what Soar is doing, not as a record of the objective situation. To
attain the latter, Soar must be attending to the ongoing stream of
events so as to capture them in some kind of operators. Both of
these properties also characterize human episodic memory.

Now take the semantic side. Chunks generalize to new situa-
tions. When they do, they become Soar’s abstract, episode-free
knowledge. For instance, Figure 4-14 showed the twelve chunks
that constitute knowledge of the three-blocks world. These blocks
chunks are no longer tied to any history; they simply describe the
Structure of the space so that Soar can get around in it (when
solving problems), These same chunks could have been learned in
the pursuit of many different specific tasks in many different orders,
so there is no trace left of any historical information. The situation
need not be as ahistorical as the blocks-world case. Chunks can

