Intendedly Rational Behavior « 427

universal theory of cognition, I take this convergence as positive
evidence for Soar as well.

This example also emphasizes the way learning and problem
solving mix together. It no longer makes much sense to keep them
separate conceptually. The fundamental constructs of problem
spaces, impasses, and chunking are well defined, because they are
identifiable mechanisms in the Soar architecture. But the larger
categorizations of behavior, such as learning as distinguished from
problem solving—and, one suspects, cognition as distinguished
from perception—will not be sharply definable, even in principle.

Thus, Soar really does embody the theory, laid out in Figure
7-13, that flowcharts are nothing but the reflection of problem
spaces. The problem spaces are created dynamically in response to
instructions, so they can be newly minted cognitive structures.
Soar can take in information that gives it the instructions to create
these problem spaces, at which point it then takes in the task and
behaves in the appropriate fashion. Soar provides a genuine theory
of how these task instructions get carried out. Furthermore, this
theory is one with the theory of how the task is carried out, which is
certainly something one would expect of a unified theory of cogni-
tion.

7.4. Summary

Let us summarize our explorations of how humans go about attain-
ing their goals as they get a little temporal space within which to
operate. We first looked at cryptarithmetic for clues to search con-
trol in problem solving over relatively long periods of time (~100
sec). Adequately modeling behavior at this level is important if Soar
is to have enough scope as a unified theory of cognition. However,
we have not yet pushed far enough to provide an example of the
vertical integration that a unified theory should allow. We argued
for the importance of devising detailed simulations of large
stretches of complex behavior, especially relatively unconstrained
naturalistic behavior, in order to build confidence that the cognitive
theory is essentially correct. The use of simulation in cryptarith-
metic illustrated that complexity could be controlled by providing
the lower-level operators manually, so we could focus directly on
the higher-level control issues. If we had got caught up in build-

