Memory, Learning, and Skill « 337

Task: free recall (a special context-free recall task)
Study trial: given item, learn to recall it

Test trial: recali all items

Study trial: try to recall this item (seif-posed task)
Recall problem space

* Operator: recall

Space contains all known items

Given item acts as search control to construct it

+ Materials are the known items

+ Construction operators are a fixed set

Try to recognize item: if so already can recall it

tf cannot recognize item, get impasses and construct item in subgeat

Test trial: just reproduce all items

Figure 6-13. Soar solution to free recall of data.

The self-imposed task is to recall the item Soar has in hand at the
moment. If the presented item arrives in the rain of items, then of
course it can recall it and the task is attained. It knows it has
recalled it, because it has the item in hand and can compare it with
the item recalled. This verification takes place on the item itself, not
on its internal name (not on *n6*). Although this name is part of the
recalled item, no internal name is attached to the item in hand. So
the comparison must be on the content of the item.

A study trial may introduce a new item. Then Soar will find itself
in the recall space, with all the known items around, but the pre-
sented item will not be one of them. Its task now (one might think of
this as the real study task) is to construct an item identical to the
presented item. It does this in response to a no-change impasse that
occurred when it attempted to apply the recall operator. The chunk
that will be built from resolving this impasse will be a new instantia-
tion of the recall operator that will produce the new item when
applied. Next time, when the recall operator is selected, this instan-
tiation will be proposed along with all the others.

Since Soar has in hand the presented item, the task of construc-
tion is actually a task of copying, analogous to that shown in Figure
6-11. The materials available for use in this copying are all the
known items (which are all laying around in the current state). It
will start out just with primitive items, a, b,c, .. . (just as in Figure
6-11). Pretty soon it gets small structures, such as (a 6 c), then
larger structures, such as (a (a b) b (c d (a 5))). Any item that has

