Intendedly Rational Behavior # 371

value—within the fixed context of the current state of the problem,
what is known about the possible digits for each letter.

There is an operator, Find-column, which takes the current state
and attentional focus as input and produces a column for PC. This
has built into it the purpose of the focus—-namely, that the resulting
column is going to be processed and hence that a column should be
found that will yield some new knowledge. The same is true of the
Find-letter operator, although this is the high-level selection of a
variable with which to pursue the total task and is thus not curtailed
by the constraints of the current focus. Generate-columns is needed
to systematically obtain the next column from right to left to check
that a sum is right. It is an operator that is part of the basic reper-
toire for multidigit addition. The last two focusing operators, Find-
antecedent and Find-production, permit access to earlier states.
They do not enter into the behavior fragment simulated here, but I
have listed their names anyway. They both raise interesting issues
of memory and access and are realized somewhat differently in
Soar than in the original system, because Soar has no access to the
productions per se.

Finally, Soar has some goal operators—operators that establish
that information of a specific type is desired. These were goals in
the original architecture specified in Newell and Simon (1972),
However, Soar generates its own subgoals from impasses. Thus,
the original goals are cast as Soar operators to produce the desired
information and are no different from other operators that Soar
deliberately decides to apply.

The search control in $3’s performance on this task resides in the
space of the focusing operators. The result of these operators deter-
mines which of the main operators, PC, AV, GN, and 7D, is applied
next and, more particularly, which instantiation will be applied.
This selection space takes as given the display and particular as-
signments and constraints known about the variables (letters and
carries). It augments this representation with a small set of control
attributes, which encode the knowledge to make the control deci-
sions. These are just simple attributes of a state: whether a result is
new, whether a contradiction has been produced, whether some-
thing is unclear, and whether something is unknown in a situation
where it is desired to be known. Their semantics are given by the
heuristics that are defined in their terms. For instance, the seman-
tics of a result being labeled new is that its implications should be

