56 ® Unified Theories of Cognition

inference rules of logic) for generating the infinite set of other ex-
pressions that comprise X’s total knowledge.

It is also important to see that logic is just one of many different
ways of representing knowledge. [t was a deliberate choice to use
logic to represent X’s knowledge. It might or might not be a good
way of representing what XY knows. It might be that Y would show
by its behavior that it knew K(1) and K(2) and K(3) but would not
exhibit any knowledge of K(4). Then this logic representation
would not describe X. It would be too powerful, implying that X
knew things it didn’t. We might try to fashion a new representation
for X’s knowledge by positing that X knew only what is expressed
in exactly the set of expressions that are written down, a represen-
tation in which no additional inferences are permitted. For some
purposes this might be useful, though with logics it isn't, because a
logic carries with it a set of rules of inference and the notion of the
free use of the rules.’ If we accept our earlier story, X did not know
K(4), so in this case the revised scheme would be too weak, imply-
ing that X didn’t know things it did. We might then cast about for
other ways of representing knowledge that would provide an accu-
rate knowledge-level description of X. There is no guarantee, of
course, that we can ever find such a representation—X might not be
representable as a knowledge-level system.

Although logic is only one of many ways of representing, it has
many nice properties that reflect general properties of bodies of
knowledge. Two bodies of knowledge can be combined to form a
single body of knowledge, as when some knowledge is incorporated
into an existing system. This corresponds to the conjunction of the
two sets of expressions in the logic. If one adds toa body of knowl-
edge exactly the same knowledge, then no new knowledge is ob-
tained. This is reflected in conjunction being idempotent: (4 and A)
if and only if A. A particularly important feature is the indication of
broad representational scope. In logics such as the first-order predi-
cate calculus, essentially any knowledge can be represented. The
indication is that other powerful representations—in particular, set
theory—can be formulated in the logic, Such sufficiency is bought
at the price of how that knowledge is represented. In fact, much
work has been done in artificial intelligence and some in philosophy

5. Recently there has been some interest in using logics with restricted rules of
inference, so that bounds can be given on the time to make inferences (Levesque, 1986).

