Along the Frontiers = 457

same sense, the option for doing something different coming at
the decision cycle. The key question is how Soar will process the
speech signal as something else (as opposed to attending to some-
thing else). It has built up the skill for procesing the speech signal as
speech. It has no other built-up skill for processing speech as some-
thing else. If it turns its recognition system on it (the earlier encod-
ing productions and finally comprehension operators), then it will
produce speech comprehension. Fodor dismisses the evidence for
making processes nonmandatory with large amounts of practice,
but such large amounts of practice seem to be what is involved in
the skills under discussion becoming mandatory.

On limited central access, the issue is the unavailability to other
(more central) processes of presumed intermediate levels of repre-
sentation, namely, acoustic, phonetic, lexical, and syntactic form.
In general, in recognition-based systems, processes have access
only to what they can recognize. They are blind to other encoded
knowledge in the system. For there to be lots of cross-transfer
of knowledge by multiple examination of it in working memory,
the knowledge must have been put into a common code. The real
problem for Soar may be how to get significant communality, not
how to avoid it. One difficulty in addressing this issue is that our ex-
perience with systems such as Soar is mostly with human system-
designers positing common representations, given their intelligent
prevision of what they want to happen. Only as we move to more
autonomous modes of operation, as hinted at by the attempt to get
Soar to take task instructions, will we see these issues clearly.

On fast operation, Fodor discusses the fact that language com-
prehension is a real-time activity that presses close to the operation
of the neural technology. This, of course, was the subject of Chap-
ter 3, and Soar has been constructed to be a system that satisfies the
real-time constraint. The trace in Figure 7-15 indicates how Soar
may be able to run comprehension in real time, although a much
more complete language system is required to verify this.

On information encapsulation, which is the limitation of the
sources of knowledge available for language comprehension, Fodor
brings forth two major considerations. First, relative autonomy of
input from belief and desire is functional for the organism (so it sees
what is there). Second, processing difficulties will arise if input
processing is opened up to all the centrally held beliefs that could
conceivably be relevant (for example, contemplating all that has

