Immediate Behavior = 303

1, How humans are able to exhibit intelligence (Chapter 4)
* To the limits of our knowledge in Al
2. Many global properties of human cognitive behavior (Chapter 4)
* Though without careful characterization
3. Human immediate behavior (~~1 sec) (Chapter 5}
* Quantitative, using functionally defined operators
4. Discrete perceptual-motor behavior (Chapter 5)
Figure 5-21. The coverage so far of Soar
as a unified theory of cognition.

whole style of analysis has been incorporated as well. Furthermore,
the MHP was itself not an attempt at new theory but a synthesis of
existing knowledge in cognition.

It is important not to forget the rest of Soar while grubbing
around down in the 100 ms trenches. This is the same Soar that
designs algorithms and does computer configurations, the same
Soar that learns about the blocks world. It is really the same Soar,
not just the same in some generalized manner of speaking. The
decision cycle and the operators, which are the heart of the expla-
nations in this chapter, play central roles in these larger tasks. If we
had moved to slightly more complex tasks in this chapter, we would
have seen much of the rest of the mechanisms emerge. Thus, Soar
is moving toward being a genuine candidate for a unified theory of
cognition—or, to stay with our rhetoric, a genuine exemplar.

Finally, let us take stock of where we have arrived. We wanted to
illustrate how Soar, as our candidate theory of cognition, handles
various domains of cognitive phenomena. Starting with this chap-
ter, we begin to summarize explicitly the domains that Soar has
covered. Figure 5-21 is the initial list, and we will add to it as we
proceed. Right now we are not concerned with exactly how good a
theory Soar provides of each item in the figure. We are interested in
coverage—in whether a single theory, as an integrated conceptual
structure, can address many different cognitive phenomena, rang-
ing in time scale and task. After all, Soar is only an exemplar, and
we can excuse it for dealing with a given area only approximately,
as long as it can make serious assertions about the phenomena.

From Chapter 4 we get two items in the list. First, Soar shows
how humans are able to exhibit intelligence. This functional con-
straint is of fundamental importance for any cognitive theory to
explain. Second, Soar exhibits many global qualitative properties of

