338 = Unified Theories of Cognition

HYay) Seo ?

Task: cued recail (given a, recall [Ip bl], [¢ dl-Jp)
Might be posed as, given a, recall {ce dj?

The task is subject-centered

To discriminate presented item p from other candidates

Oistractors are internally generated

Study trial: try to recall item using cues (self-posed task}

Do free recall

if retrieve muitiple items, apply discriminate operator

Discriminate operator discovers a cue and rejects alternatives
Chunk is created to reject alternative on basis of cue

Test trial: if chunks discriminate a single item, then recall succeeds
If chunks don't discriminate, then get a set of alternatives

Figure 6-14, Soar solution to cued recall of data.

already been built can be used for the copy. Soar also has construc-
tion operators, which are a small fixed set of actions that link items
into structures. They are available from the beginning and are used
throughout the growth of recallable items (only the operators corre-
sponding to items grow). The presented item in hand is used as
search control to select these construction operators (just as in
Figure 6-11). The construction is terminated by the firing of the
recognition chunk, which indicates the copy is complete.

Figure 6-14 shows the third and final step, which is to do a cued-
recall task. The task is set up as a paired-associates task, in which
the stimulus item (a 6), and the response item (c d), are put together
into a pair structure ((a 5), (ed ),)y. Thus, there is a single presented
structure, just as in the first two steps. In the test trial, a part will be
presented, to wit, the stimulus (a 5),, and what should be recalled is
another part of the structure in which this first part occurred, to wit,
the response part (c d},. Soar is to attempt to recall the total struc-
ture (the pair) and then to extract the response part.

It's important to realize that the problem of cued recall is a sub-
ject-centered problem. The experimenter may say, ‘I hereby point
out this cue, and when I present the cue to you again, then recall
this response item.”’ From the subject’s point of view, however, the
real problem is to distinguish what needs to be recalled from all the
other items that might be recalled—from the internally generated
distractors, to use the language of experimental psychology. Thus,
from the subject's viewpoint, the problem is one of discrimination,
and the subject must find the discriminators. The subject cannot get

