Along the Frontiers = 447

before one gets any information from the comprehension. On the
other hand, given that concurrency, then Soar is quite capable of
delivering the sorts of information in these experiments within the
time ranges indicated.

8.1.2, Language Learning

Language learning must happen by the chunking of comprehension
operators. Words will arrive that are unknown to Soar or have
unknown senses or cause the comprehension to go awry. These
should lead at some point to Soar not knowing what to do, which is
to say, getting an impasse of some sort. Impasses should evoke
problem solving on the part of Soar, which when successful should
lead to the chunking of new comprehension operators, or the
chunking of new additions to old ones. Thus, language learning
should occur gradually, chunk by chunk, filling out comprehension
operators from experience by problem solving in the context of
language use. This much is essentially given by the Soar architec-
ture, plus the adoption of the comprehension-operator principle and
the context of language use. One reason comprehension operators
seem right is that they come with a theory about how they will be
acquired.

In general, Soar can learn anything, but what, in fact, Soar learns
depends on the tasks that are posed (whether by an external agent,
the environment, or Soar itself). The nontrivial issues are what the
tasks should be to learn a specific thing and how these tasks should
be posed. The story in Chapter 6 on data chunking and its resolu-
tion provides one lesson about how Soar learns. Therefore, al-
though the overall picture above can be taken as an initial sketch,
we must reserve judgment until more details are available.

To push this claim a little, we can attempt once more to play our
standard strategy of seeing whether we can get Soar to do some
small bit of language acquisition, to see what the resulting structure
looks like. This task will at least take us beyond the general charac-
terizations above and let us know whether some difficulties are
hiding immediately beneath the surface.

Let us go back to the simple example we used in Chapter 7.
Instead of the utterance Plus is above star, we will use a different
word for the subject of the sentence—Check is above star—and

5. This is work by Gregg Yost.

