Along the Frontiers = 489

The general relationship of a symbol architecture, such as Soar,
to connectionism plays only a minor role in determining how the
science of the mind should move forward. More pertinent is
whether enough constraining information can cross the gap be-
tween the biological band and the cognitive band (in either direc-
tion) to help in winnowing theories on the other side. The temporal
mapping only helps to establish the possibility of such information
flow. It doesn’t assure that it can or will happen. Life between the
bands has been a continual oscillation of rising hope that the bridge
has finally spanned the chasm, followed by the realization that the
time has not yet arrived in fact.

This book has emphasized the real-time constraint on cognition,
in part because we managed to extract some useful inferences from
it, but this is surely an overemphasis. Even in terms of highly
general constraints, there are others whose consequences might be
of interest. There is an analogous spatial or volume constraint—the
brain all fits into ~ 1,000 cubic centimeters, and systems are built up
from components in space as well as time. Functionality requires
volume and in a system that appears in general to assign regions of
space to global functions, there is the possibility of doing much
more functional accounting than we have yet attempted. One could
even try to dig beneath the surface of the general allometric rela-
tions that show that over species the volume of the brain is roughly
proportional to surface area (Jerison, 1973). There is also no doubt
some sort of functional continuity constraint, arising from embry-
ological considerations, that nearby micro-regions mostly accom-
plish similar computational functions. This constraint underlies an
organization of spatial specialization with distal intermodule com-
munication. There might even be energy-budget constraints that
have an effect, and some of the new brain scans may make us aware
of that. There are also the general effects of stochastic operation.
These carry a general implication of asynchronous operation, but
maybe much more. The brain is a product of evolution and is con-
structed embryologically. Some agreement exists on the principles
of evolutionary construction, for example, that systems are addi-
tive and existing mechanisms are subverted to accomplish new
functions. Attempts have been made to exploit some of these con-
straints, as in the hypothesis of the triune brain, in which the brain
is layered in evolutionary stages (reptilian, paleomammalian, and
neomammalian) and this layering has direct implications for behay-

fi]
