280 = Unified Theories of Cognition

shows an example. The task is taken from work by John (John,
Rosenbloom, & Newell, 1985). She is exploring SRC in human-
computer interaction, so this task is to recall command names for a
computer system. The commands are abbreviations and they must
be obtained in response to thinking of the complete name for
the function, in response to the demands of the task. Thus, in the
figure, the user intends to delete something but must think of the
command name dit to type it at the keyboard. In the experiment,
delete appeared on the display and the user was to type dit, This
might not seem to be an example of SRC phenomena, since the
usual examples of it are spatial (as in Figure 5-10), but itis. A highly
compatible condition would be the rule of identity—type defere in
response to the display of delete. Highly incompatible would be
labels based on remote functional descriptions, such as gra from
get rid of for delete. An intermediate case would be an arbitrary
prefix character plus a one-letter code, for example, /d for delete.

The particular abbreviation rule in the figure is called vowel defe-
tion. Going from delete to dit is a mapping. In the figure, we write
down the process of carrying out this mapping as Soar would per-
form it, namely in terms of our scheme of P-E-A-C-I-D-M (leaving
out T as already having been performed). We have an algorithm
from John’s work against which to compare,

The initial requirement is to read in the displayed stimulus (de-
fete). The first step for Soar is perception P. This just takes the
basic perceptual time of ~40 ms, as used for SRT and CRT. The
result has to be encoded for Soar to recognize the word. This task
requires a minimum of one production a letter. Encoding is essen-
tially name recognition, and empirically it turns out to take about 30
ms per letter, for both reading and isolated word naming (Just &
Carpenter, 1987; Henderson, 1982). We will use ~20 ms per pro-
duction, the time we adopted. Encoding delete will take six produc-
tions for a total of ~120 ms. Then there’s the A operator to attend
and a C operator to verify. If we add up this part we get ~280 ms, In
John’s theory, this entire phase is summarized in a single percep-
tual operator of 314 ms, which was a parameter estimated from her
data. Our prediction is a little low, but in the ballpark.

Soar does the mapping by getting each syllable of the word (de,
fete), then the spelling of each syllable (d, ¢), and then deciding
whether to type each letter (d—type, e—don’t type). The figure
shows the number of operations, aggregated over each stage. There

