Symbolic Processing for intelligence = 189

Chunk1:

If the problem-space is simple-blocks-world,
and the state is one proposition different from the goai,
and the state has block 1 and block 2 clear,
and block 1 is on the table,
and the desired state has block 1 on block 2,

then make a best preference for the Operator that moves
block 1 anto block 2

Figure 4-13. An example chunk from the
blocks-world trace of Figure 4-10.

step from the desired state. The conditions express this in a way
derived from the original formulation. The first condition is that the
problem space is the simple blocks world. That may seem like a
boilerplate instruction, yet it is critical for not overgeneratizing this
knowledge, which is specific to the blocks-world problem space.
The second condition specifies that the system is one step away
from the goal state. It does this in terms of how many propositions
are not satisfied. This implies a particular representation for the
blocks world, in terms of little Propositions such as (onto B C), and
operators that change these propositions. This condition is also
dependent on the problem space. The third and fourth conditions
specify the actual contents of the state and desired states,

The analysis just given posited the recurrence of exactly the same
situation. So chunking appears to be a scheme that simply speeds
up processing. But the exact same situation means that aif the
elements in working memory at the time of the left-hand solid verti-
cal are the same. Yet, only elements that were relevant to produc-
ing the result were picked out in building the chunk. All the rest are
irrelevant. The chunk production will not test for any of these.
Hence, the chunk will be evoked in any situation that has elements
that match its conditions (A, B, C), no matter how different the
situation is otherwise. Thus, chunking produces implicit generali-
zation. This production will work not only in the exact same situa-
tion, but many other ones as well, producing transfer of learning.
This production could introduce inappropriate elements into work-
ing memory and lead problem solving astray. If it does, it would
produce negative transfer or, to use an alternative term, over-
generalization. How efficacious and safe implicit generalization is
cannot be determined at a glance. It turns out to be extraordinarily

