Symbolic Processing for Intelligence = 185

preferences to reject the Operators in the original context, where
they had been proposed (part of the knowledge of the selection
space). This immediately resolves the tie impasse, since the only
choice left is forced. So this move (A > T) is actually made in the
top space, not in the evaluation space. (It occurs by the operation of
the decision procedure to select from all the options—in this case,
between the option of evaluating the move in the selection Space
and the option of selecting the move in the top space.) Having
moved A to the table, the available elementary heuristic search-
control knowledge sees that one of the things wanted can be at-
tained in a single move, namely, to move B onto C, as specified in
the desired state. At this point, there is only one move that can be
applied without taking back an immediately made move, so Soar
gets to the final state, which is indeed the desired state.

This example provides a bit of typical Soar behavior as it per-
forms a simple task. Soar simply proceeds to apply operators to do
the task, and its lack of knowledge about how to proceed drives it to
solve a variety of subgoals, which result in a pattern of behavior
that is a look-ahead search. This behavior, of course, is not just
determined by the architecture, Plenty of knowledge is brought to
bear.

4.2. Chunking

We now have seen how Soar performs—by using problem spaces
and moving through them to attain its tasks, detouring as necessary
to resolve whatever impasses arise. We come now to the final com-
ponent of the architecture in the list of Figure 4-1, namely chunk-
ing. Chunking is learning from experience, It is a way of converting
goal-based problem solving into accessible long-term memory (pro-
ductions), Whenever problem solving has provided some result, a
new production will be created, whose actions are these just-
obtained results and whose conditions are the working-memory
elements that existed before the problem solving started that were
used to produce the results. This newly minted production will be
added to the long-term memory, and will henceforth be available to
add its knowledge to the working memory in any future elaboration
phase where its conditions are satisfied. For reference, Figure 4-11
lists the key properties of chunking, which will emerge as we pro-
ceed through the discussion,

pee
