6 = Unified Theories of Cognition

develops, which takes some time and occurs only after the pointer
is down course a ways; but by the time the correction is made the
pointer is further along. Despite all this, the theory provides a use-
ful way to think about the phenomena. For instance, it does reflect
that the issue is not one of physical distance, but one of control; and
it correctly predicts that if the movement has to occur without
vision (blindfolding the person), then it will be much less accurate.
The theory will remain useful, until it is replaced by a better one.

1.1.2. The Power Law of Practice

Here is a second example of a theory. Figure !-2 shows another
body of very well known data, taken from Seibel (1963). This is a
1,023-choice reaction time task. A person is faced with ten lights
above ten buttons for the ten fingers, one below each light. Ata
trial, a pattern of lights comes up and the person presses the corre-
sponding set of buttons—striking the corresponding chord. The
figure shows how tong it takes to press the buttons as a function of
the number of times the task was done—that is, as a function of
practice. There are ten lights, hence 2'° — 1 or 1,023 different
patterns (ignoring the pattern for no lights turning on).

As the figure shows, when a person first starts to do the task, it
takes about a second and a half (1,500 milliseconds) to respond. But
with practice the reaction time speeds up. This person (the graph
plots the performance of a single individual) was induced to prac-
tice the task a little over 70,000 times (70 times through the entire
1,023 patterns). Reaction time comes down to about 450 milli-
seconds. This still takes longer than the time to react in the simple
task of just pushing a button when a light goes on, which can be
under 200 milliseconds. But it has still improved a lot. Furthermore,
and the important feature for us, learning obeys a simple quantita-
tive law. If (as in the figure) the logarithm of the reaction time (RT)
is plotted against the logarithm of the number of practice trials (N),
the result is a downward-sloping straight line. The figure actually
plots the logarithm of T minus an estimated asymptote (A) versus
the logarithm of the number of trials plus an estimated number (E)
of trials that occurred prior to the particular experiment. This
straightens the curve out somewhat.

The important point is that there is a regular law. The law has
been known for a long time, having been first described by Snoddy
(1926) in connection with learning to trace geometric figures in a

