Memory, Learning, and Skil! « 321

solution times, but in the inability to solve the new problems at all.
Functional fixity (Duncker, 1945) is the inability to think of (recall
from memory or notice in the environment) objects as parts of a
problem's solution if the objects have been previously used for a
function different from that demanded by the current problem. A
typical experimental demonstration might involve the failure to use
a brick as a measuring instrument (that is, as a standard length) if it
has just been used to hold up a shelf. Both of these phenomena
involve the chunks that are built, either for recall or for recognition,
and their essential meaning is that the conditions of accessibility are
related to the function or tasks in which the learning occurred. This
is just a restatement that learning is related to the goals operating at
the time of learning.

(7) Related to both these phenomena is the principle of encoding
specificity (Tulving, 1983), which, in its simplest form, asserts that
accessibility depends on the cues that are noticed at the time of
learning. Soar chunking is a strong form of this principle. In gen-
eral, learning systems composed from production systems obey the
encoding-specificity principle, since the conditions (which deter-
mine accessibility) are constructed at learning time from the materi-
als that are available then, Thus, as in many other cases throughout
the book, Soar has various properties because of specific mecha-
nisms, and these properties are shared by large families of architec-
tures. The Soar explanation is strengthened by the observation that
the specification of the encoding is related to the task being done
(although this too is a general Property shared by a subfamily of
architectures).

(8) The psychological literature contains many results about
chunking as the organization of memory. Some of these, such as the
original short-term encoding results on which Miller based his origi-
nal paper (Miller, 1956), are not pure long-term memory results and
do not flow from the aspect of Soar we are considering here. But
others, such as the chess-perception results (De Groot, 1965; Chase
& Simon, 1973), can be seen as direct analogs to Soar’s theory of
chunking. A person views a chess position from the middle game of
a tournament game for five seconds and then attempts to reproduce
the position from memory. A chess master will doa good job (23 out
of 25 men correctly placed); but a novice will do very poorly (3 or 4
out of 25). In fact, this perceptual-memory test is the best quick test
there is for chess skill. The models that explain this phenomenon do

Bai
