164 = Unified Theories of Cognition

adopted. The effects of such uniformities can be adequately as-
sessed only in terms of the solutions they enable to system-wide
issues. The uniform use of problem spaces strongly affects two
such issues. First, the binding of control information occurs at run
time, immediately before an operator is applied, whereas in stan-
dard (sequential and procedural) languages the binding occurs at
the time the program is created. Thus, thé problem space provides
the opportunity to respond to each situation in terms of the knowl-
edge available at that moment. It is a form of what Al calls a
minimum-commitment strategy—never make a commitment until
the choice is forced. Second, in a system that learns continuously,
as Soar does, the movement from probiematical (much search) to
routine (little search) is continuous. It does not face at any point the
requirement for a discrete change of representation. Offsetting
these gains is the extra processing needed to make the binding
decisions repeatedly at run time.

4.1.2. Production Systems for Long-Term Memory

The second feature of the central cognitive architecture is that all of
its long-term memory is constructed as a single production system.
Memory for everything is handled by the same structure, the same
writing processes, and the same reading (or access) processes—for
search control, for how to implement an operation, for declarative
knowledge, for historical (episodic) knowledge, for everything.
This is another uniform assumption. It is arguably the most conten-
tious feature of the Soar architecture. Most people in computer
science, Al, and cognitive science hold the view that declarative
memory and procedural memory are fundamentally separate kinds
of memories kept in separate kinds of structures. For instance, this
is.a key and much emphasized feature of Act* (Anderson, 1983).
Many people also seek to create separate memory structures for
episodic and semantic memory (Tulving, 1983). Soar is an explora-
tion in trying to live with a single uniform memory.

Most cognitive scientists are familiar with production systems,
also called parallel rule-based systems or sometimes pattern-
directed inference systems (Waterman & Hayes-Roth, 1978). Fig-
ure 4-3 shows the structure. There is permanent memory of produc-
tions. There are three productions in the figure (PI, P2, P3), but
there might be 3,000 or 300,000. There is a working memory, which
is a collection of data elements (the Es). Each production has a set
