376 @ Unified Theories of Cognition

certain result so he applies TD on E = 9 witha positive outcome
(just like the application of 7D to column 2 earlier). This confirmed
result leads him to realize that he has the result of the first GET E
(line L7) and then to returm to getting c6 (line L8), which now can be
produced by PC on column 5 to be c6 = 1. This finally brings him
back to the original PC of column 6 (line 9).

The sequence of behaviors by Soar in Figure 7-4 is very close to
the sequence that $3 goes through, but it shows only the beginning
of his perseveration on column 5 (see Figure 7-2), so there is much
more to unravel. More generally, this initial effort, done for the
purposes of using Soar to illustrate a unified theory of cognition,
still leaves much undone. There remains (as always) some dis-
crepancies between Soar and $3, both of omission and commission.
For example, the simulation does not exhibit the way $3 checks
explicitly each of the three columns in which R occurs {(B66~-B68).
More important, ultimately Soar should perform the concurrent
task of thinking aloud. Not only is this part of the task that $3
performs, but without it there remains an irremediable gap between
the data produced by the human and the data produced by the
simulation. For instance, there is nothing in the protocol corre-
sponding to line L7, where $3 is returning to the first GET E; it is
plausible that this step does not generate any verbal behavior, but
that needs to be addressed by the theory. Furthermore, a process
theory of thinking aloud has already been developed by Ericsson
and Simon (1984) in their study of using protocols as data. So this is
a natural extension to expect from a unified theory.

We have here a variant use of simulation. The normat style is to
program up a total system and to run it, once or many times, to
generate traces of a system’s behavior or to estimate parameters
numerically. In our cryptarithmetic example, the entire bottom
level of the system is left undefined. This allows us to test the upper
levels without the lower levels, the conceptual advantage being to
factor out the influences of the lower levels by design beforehand,
rather than by analysis from the total simulation record. There is
also a major gain in research efficiency in not having to create the
simulation of the lower levels. The present case indicates how
significant this can be. Ifa lower level is to be included, then it must
be very accurate or else it will contaminate all attempts to under-
stand the higher level. One error in PC (say) and the simulation will

