424 « Unified Theories of Cognition

Create an operator: Do-task
Create an operator-implementation problem space
The operators of this space come from the instructions

“Read the sentence.”
Create an operator to read the sentence

“Then examine the picture.”
Create an operator to examine the picture
Canditional upon having a result of prior operator

“Press the T-button if the sentence is true of the picture.”
Create an operator to press T-button
Conditional upon truth-index having value true

“Press the F-button if the sentence is false of the picture.”
Create an operator to press F-button

Conditional upon truth-index having value false

“Then the task is done.”

Create an operator to recognize task as done

Figure 7-17. Prior trial-specific instructions.

so on. That isn't quite enough either, for this presupposes what can
be called introductory instructions: Hello, this morning we'll run an
experiment, . .. At some point, the outer context is sufficient to
interpret what to do by what the person already knows and by being
situated in the experimental room with the apparatus.

This is enough information to provide an answer to the question,
at least in outline. Problem spaces come from whatever leads the
person to set up the task—what we are calling instructions. As the
figure shows, there is a succession of concentric layers of outer
context (which ultimately terminate as a function of the initial
knowledge). Let us take just the next layer out, the prior trial-
specific instructions in Figure 7-16. Figure 7-17 shows how Soar
does this task.'? Its presuppositions include knowledge of the sort
in the instructions lower down in Figure 7-16. In particular, Soar
understands that it is to acquire a new task from reading the trial-
specific instructions. (Actually, adding another sentence, such as
Here are the instructions for the task, would have avoided this
being a presupposition.)

Soar reads the sentences in the trial-specific instructions exactly

19. This is work by Gregg Yost. [t has been continued and extended by Lewis,
Newell, and Polk (1989),

