Intendedly Rational Behavior = 389

of representational laws. (Models, however, need not be symbol
structures, as in the analogue representation discussed in Chap-
ter 2.)

Representations can be characterized along two dimensions—
their scope (what they can represent) and their processing cost
(how difficult is the processing required to use them). Propositions
and models are distinguished along both dimensions. This is re-
flected in differences in their representational form and in the map-
pings between their forms and external objects. We can start with
form. It might seem that the distinction in form should be categor-
ical and central—propositions have one form and models have an-
other—but the essential distinction is one of processing. Conse-
quently, the concepts of proposition and model are more like
prototypes and their forms cannot be categorically distinguished.

Figure 7-9 showed several small but prototypical propositions in
the first-order predicate calculus. They form assertions by the use
of various devices—terms, logical connectives (and, or, . . . ),
predicates and quantifiers (also functions, but none occurred in the
example). Key is the phrase structuring that arises out of the recur-
sive character of connectives, in which the arguments of connec-
tives are truth values and the connectives in turn create proposi-
tions that yield truth values. The central mapping between a
proposition and the external world is truth—each proposition must
be true of the world it represents under the mapping of the terms,
predicates, and functions. It is easy to see how the whole represen-
tational loop is there.

Propositional representations can be universal in scope and hard
in the processing required. On the representational side, there is
essentially nothing that cannot be represented. This is reflected in
the ability to formulate set theory and ail of mathematics in the first-
order predicate calculus. Correspondingly, the processing to use
such representations can be very hard. For instance, consider two
propositions in the predicate calculus, each of which uniquely char-
acterizes an object. To determine whether the two objects are actu-
ally the same object is a theorem-proving problem that in general
can be arbitrarily difficult. Likewise, going from an internal propo-
sitional characterization of an object to some external manifestation
of it, such as constructing it, is again a derivation or theorem-
proving problem. This is not surprising. A propositional representa-

”

