Along the Frontiers = 501

overall basic scientific enterprise. They provide the successes that
convince the polity that the science is worth supporting—that goes
without saying in the current era—but they provide much more
than that. Applications are critical as well for the internal conduct
of the science. They establish what is worth predicting. They estab-
lish what accuracy is sufficient. They establish when a regularity is
worth remembering. They establish when a theory should not be
discarded.

Perhaps all that seems like quite a bit. But if a theory is doing
good things in terms of applications, then, even if it seems uninter-
esting for other reasons, it will be kept and used. Applications say it
is worth remembering Fitts’ law, but applications are silent on the
phenomenon of the release from PI, The latter is certainly a
regularity (Wickens, 1970).?' {t was quite interesting during the
early 1970s, in connection with interference theories of short-term
memory. Fitts’ law is tied in deeply with many applications. Re-
lease from PI is not tied in with any applications, as far as I know.
Without applications as a guide, there is only current theory to
maintain interest in it. But current theory is fickle—it exists in the
minds of scientists, not in the world of real effects. Thus, as the
theory goes, so goes interest in its facts. There is a theme in current
philosophy of science that emphasizes that facts are theory
bound—which even goes so far as to deny the status of fact to a
regularity if it is not part of a theoretical view. And so we tend to
forget about release from PI when interference theory goes out of
fashion. And we tend to ignore Fitts’ law when motor behavior is
not fashionable in current cognitive theory. But some of us don’t
forget Fitts’ law, because applications keep us interested in it.

This is not an argument against basic science. Just in case it is not

21. Here is the basic phenomenon, for those not acquainted with it. A basic experi-
mental paradigm to show short-term memory for verbal material is to present a verbal
item (say three letters), then fill the next short interval (say 15 sec) with distracting
activity (counting backwards by sevens) to prevent rehearsal, then ask for recall of the
item. There is almost perfect recall in the first of an experimental sequence of trials, but
then recall falts off with additional trials if they occur in a continuous sequence. It is said
there has been a buildup of proactive inhibition. Mf a somewhat different item is given
after a while, say three digits, it is remembered easily. However. if triplets of digits are
then continued, they too become hard to remember after a few trials. It is said there has
been a release from proactive inhibition (Pi). The standard explanations ascribe the
phenomena to the need to discriminate the new items from the old ones, so that when a
different item is given it is easily discriminated.

gil

