290 © Unified Theories of Cognition

comes attached to the current state. The items are all attached to
the same state (this arrangement follows the single-state principle
of Figure 5-3) and in the same way. This is because the items are
presented rapidly (500 ms between items), so there is no time be-
tween items to engage in any discriminating processing. The sim-
Plest representation is that each item is linked by an attribute,
target, to the current state, and the same attribute is used for all
items.

The warning signal arrives, passes through its own P-E-A-C
Stages (there may or may not be an attend operator, depending on
the experimental arrangement), Its arrival enables the resetting of
the context (by a T Operator) so that the probe will be handled
differently than the target items. The Preoccurrence of the warning
signal is usually all that differentiates the targets from the probe.
The time between warning and probe is usually quite short (~500
ms), which means that other tasks cannot be completed reliably
before the probe arrives.

Then the probe arrives, passing through its own P-E-C Stages
(but not A, since attention will already be focused on the impending
probe). The probe causes some kind of Process that involves instan-
tiating each of the targets by one or more productions. This occurs
as part of the C-operator, as the system ascertains whether the
probe has the property is-a-target or és-not-a-target. All the targets
are identical, all being values of a single attribute (target). Thus,
any production (within C) that matches against one target matches
against all and hence will be instantiated against all. The execution
of this production all occurs within a single elaboration phase. Fur-
thermore, we know from the limited-instantiation mechanism (Fig-
ure 5-3) that one production cycle is required to produce the instan-
tiation associated with each target. As a result of this, some contact
is made between the probe and the target, resulting in an augmenta-
tion that says is-a-target or is-not-a-target. This is detected, an
intention is generated (an T-operator), and a response is produced,
in a fashion familiar from the SRC examples.

In this qualitative explanation, the details of the comprehension-
Operator productions are not specified. They could be conducting a
search, attempting to assemble the targets in some form for subse-
quent testing, or performing some other function—it doesn’t make
any difference. What is imperative is that all the targets must be
touched in some way, hence by a single production (because they
are indistinguishable), hence producing an instantiation for each,

