Intendedly Rational Behavior = 367

Figure 7-2 represents genuine cognitive behavior. Hence Soar
should model it. It is that simple. A unified theory of cognition is to
be the theory used for all such tasks—not theory A for task A and
theory B for task B. Thus, some effort has been devoted to getting
Soar to produce a detailed simulation of this protocol.> This may
seem an odd thing to do. After all, this very protocol was analyzed
over twenty years ago (Newell, 1967; Newell & Simon, 1972), in
more detail than most psychologists would think interesting or per-
haps even possible. A simulation was produced from a production
system and, even though the whole analysis was manual (this being
before production systems existed as real programming systems), it
still seems odd to flog once more this poor dead horse. In fact, two
good reasons exist to lay on the straps, a small one and a large one.

The small reason first. Soar, as a unified theory of cognition,
should ultimately cover all of cognitive behavior—providing expla-
nations or predictions (as the case may be) for all the phenomena
that have been accumulated. There is an immense backlog of such
phenomena, including worked-out analyses. Even though Soar can
be seen to be the right sort of theory, it certainly cannot be taken on
faith that it covers bodies of phenomena to which it hasn't been
applied. Thus, we must continually test Soar (or any other unified
theory of cognition) by taking old results from throughout the cog-
nitive domain and applying Soar to them. We have already done
some of this in the work on stimulus-response compatibility, tran-
scription typing, and Epam. Here, we extend our tests to the
problem-solving level, as represented by the cryptarithmetic anal-
yses in Human Problem Solving.

The large reason responds to a basic issue in cognition. That the
human has a cognitive architecture is tantamount to there actually
being a mechanics of the mind. In principle, it should be possible to
follow the actual trajectory of the mind as it zigs and zags its way
through the forests of facts that cover the hillsides of a specific task.
We all understand that the mind and the situations it inhabits are so
complex and inaccessible that actually computing such a trajectory
will seldom be possible. The temptation is all too easy to view
cognitive theory as but a convenient sort of abstract fiction—useful
to compute some molar phenomena, but not able to track the mo-
lecular zigs and zags. This view is easily reinforced by the spread-

3. This is work by Olin Shivers.

