intendedly Rational Behavior = 375

the usual way) to its implementation space and goes down the same
path again—repeating the processing. This time, having gone
through it a second time, S3 is now clear about L = 3. (Again, our
simulation sees this simply as the result of TD.) $3 returns from the
impasse with a confirmed value of 7 for R (B66). This and the new
item (L = 3) leads him over to column 6 (line L3). The PBG does
not show the operation of the focusing operators, namely that FC
went looking for columns containing £ and did not find any, but the
protocol makes it explicit (B72-73). So this search-control heu-
ristic, which we have seen used before, does not yield anything, R
is also still new, so this same search-contro! heuristic applied to R
picks up that R occurs in columns 2, 4, and 6, Column 6 is a more
constraining column (it has D = 5 and it is at the left edge, which
determines the carry-out) than column 6 (which has two unique
letters, N and B), so column 6 is selected and processed (PC on 6).
The result is that G equals 1 or 2, with the carry into column 6 being
unknown (?),

This result is not a definite one, so TD does not get selected.
Rather, that c6, the carry-in to column 6, is unknown selects the
GET operator (L4) on c6. This leads again to an implementation
subgoal, which leads S3 back to the source of c6, column 5, and
hence to processing (PC) column 5. This search control is simply
the upstream version of the constraint-propagation heuristic,
namely, to find out about something go to a source that has knowl-
edge about that thing. The first attempt to process column 5 does
not do very well. S3 produces E = 0, but labels it as unclear (?).
As we noted above, it is not surprising that he is uncertain about
O +E = O, although from the point of view of the simulation, this
is just a given. Being unclear about E, $3 applies the operator to
GET E (line L5). Note that he was not attempting to get E when he
first processed column 5; he was attempting to get c6. The operator
to get E leads once more to an implementation space and a repeat of
PC on that column (just like the repeat of PC on column 3 at the
beginning of the fragment).

Again S3 obtains E = 0, but he remains unclear (another given to
the simulation). This leads him to apply GET E a second time (line
L6) and to go down into one more implementation space. This time
he considers that the carry-in from the prior column (c5) might be 1.
Thus, the attempt to process column 5 produces E = 9, This is a

