Along the Frontiers =» 475

the signal that there is not sufficient knowledge to proceed within a
given space. Thus, P space functions as the backup space for P2.
Hence, there is no issue of what must be known to create P;—
absolutely nothing except that P should be entered to find out what
to do if P; does not have appropriate knowledge.

When created, P, is an empty problem space. As a result, all
problem solving actually occurs initially in P space. But every time
an impasse (from P3) is resolved in P space, a chunk is built that
transfers this solution up into P; space. This happens because P
space is the subspace to resolve impasses in P, space. Next time in
P, that particular impasse will not occur, and instead behavior will
proceed in P, without reference to P space. Gradually, then, the
knowledge in P space is transferred into Pz space. Of course, only
that knowledge transfers that is the solution to the problems that
actually occur in P, space. Thus, the various proposals and rejec-
tions related to the bad learning in P do not get transferred. The
rejections in P see to that.

The analogy of the relation of P, to P being like an inheritance
hierarchy fits some aspects quite well—P, space is a P space with
modifications. And, as we will see presently, an extended hierarchy
can build up. However, the analogy also misleads. First, though
mostly just an annoyance, the language of up and down is reversed.
As an inheritance hierarchy, one moves from P, up to P; but as an
impasse hierarchy one moves down from P, to P. (We will stick
with saying down from P2 to P.) Second, there is filtering—not
everything is brought up into P, by chunking. Indeed, the whole
purpose of the mechanism is to filter out some aspects of P space
(the bad learning). The filtering is accomplished by the natural pro-
cesses of problem solving and chunking, which make what is
brought into P; space functional for the tasks for which P, was
created. Third, there is automatic migration of information from the
original elements in the hierarchy to the more recent elements,
whereas in inheritance the knowledge remains with the original
element. These differences reflect that the purpose of inheritance is
to save space and central.control by storing knowledge only in
place, at thee&xpense bf using a little moreprocessing time; whereas
the purpose of the P;-P hierarchy is to save time and avoid process-

ing bad elements, at the expense of using a littte more space.
This entire inheritance-like mechanism happens by impasses and

