Human Cognitive Architecture » 127

The scale is geometric, so that the appropriate scale unit is the
logarithm of time.

We are interested in the smallest factor required to produce a
new level. A level must be about a factor of ten bigger than the next
lower level, Some number of components have to be put together
and allowed to interact for a few cycles in order to get a new system
level with new properties. It can’t be done with two or three com-
ponents and it can’t be done with just a couple of component opera-
tion times. Novel behavior can’t build up that rapidly. On the other
hand, there are lots of cases where less than 100 or 1,000 compo-
nents or component-times suffice.* Thus, we can take a factor of 10
to be the minimum characteristic factor to get from one level to the
next. This factor is highly approximate, of course. It might be only
3 in some cases, it might be as many as 30 in others. Let us use
~~ 10 as a special notation to indicate such very approximate num-
bers. Perhaps ‘‘times or divided by 3°" is a useful way to think of the
approximation in analogy with the usual “‘plus or minus 3." A
factor of ~~10 is both a symbol for the minimal growth factor for
system levels and an estimate of its size as very roughly 10.

3.3. The Time Scale af Human Action

Let us now consider the time scale at which human action occurs,
shown in Figure 3-3. At the left, time is measured in seconds, and
ordered by a log scale. The next column to the right names the time
units—microseconds (us, or 107° sec), milliseconds (ms), seconds,
minutes, and hours. Correspondence with real life is a little rough,
because we don’t live according to the metric scale of time; but it
helps to keep the time scale calibrated to everyday life. The units
themselves are, of course, geometrically related to one another.
The next column names the system with the characteristic opera-
tion time. For us, time is the useful measure of the system level, not
space. But of course the characteristic physical size increases cor-
respondingly. Several adjacent levels group together in what are
called bands. Different bands are quite different phenomenal

4, Systems can be much farger than the minimum. This usually implies a homoge-
neous iterative structure of some kind. Thus, a wire is a system that is almost indefinitely
larger (longer) than the substructure out of which it is built. Simon's analysis of complex-
ity indicates limits to how large, in terms of the number of immediate constituent compo-
nents, a truly complicated system can be.

