94 « Unified Theories of Cognitian

common representation for knowledge is the implicational closure
of a conjunction of sentences in a first-order logic, with goals being
to establish the validity of sentences in the logic. The total knowl
edge of such a body is generally unbounded. It is not possible to
access all knowledge from such a body of knowledge in finite time.
In essence, this is what the theorems about undecidability of first-
order logic proclaim—there is no way to guarantee that an arbitrary
item of knowledge (a theorem) is or is not part of the knowledge. On
the other hand, if one permits unbounded time, then it can be deter-
mined. Thus, given unbounded time, it is possible to have perfectly
intelligent systems that have large bodies of knowledge and large
sets of goals. But given only finite time, it is not possible to have
such perfectly intelligent systems. To obtain systems with perfect
knowledge, one must shrink down to very limited systems in terms
of their knowledge and goals (as in the thermocouple example
above).

It follows from the dependence of intelligence on the specific
character of goals and knowledge that there can be no simple mea-
sure of intelligence. The variability and diversity are too great. It
should be possible to have indexes that reflect the amount of intelli-
gence, analogous to the gross national product and the economic
productivity indexes. The gross national product reflects what is
happening in the economy, but it can be accurate only up to a point,
and not a very fine point at that. Goods and services are wildly
diverse and the method of valuation (market prices) is the reflection
of many factors. There simply isn’t any such thing out there that is
the gross national product that can become known accurately.
Likewise, actual IQ measures are imperfect for many different rea-
sons. An important one is that they confound knowledge and intelli-
gence. But even beyond that, they try to summarize in a single
number what is far too diverse.

The issue of the relation between knowledge and intelligence,
though central to what is special about this definition of intelli-
gence, is hardly new. The field of intelligence testing has continu-
ally attempted to develop concepts of intelligence that are, roughly
speaking, independent of knowledge. The most famous of these is
g, the general factor that is always present (if looked for) in factor
analyses of intelligence tests (Spearman, 1927). The distinction is
also captured in fluid intelligence (which can be used in diverse
situations) as opposed to crystallized intelligence (which is cast

a

