18 = Unified Theories of Cognition

. Unification is always an aim of science

. Bringing all parts to bear on a behavior

. Bringing multiple constraints to bear

. Increased rate of cumutation

. Increased identifiability

. Amortization of theoretical constructs

Open the way to applications

. Change from discriminative to approximative style
. Solve the irrelevant-specification problem

OMNANDPYANS

Figure !-6. Why unified theories of cognition?

they are important to understand and help to make that theory
simple enough to use, But they don’t remove the necessity of a
theory that provides the total picture and explains the role of the
parts and why they exist.

Next, the mind is shaped by multiple constraints. It requires a
unified theory of cognition to bring these constraints to bear, to
discover how they jointly affect and determine the structure of
mind. This point may seem somewhat indirect, so let us step aside
to consider it in a little more detail. Figure 1-7 gives a slight rework-
ing of a list of constraints from an earlier discussion on the nature
of physical symbol systems (Newell, 1980a). Mind, which can be
taken as a word to express the human's ability to deal with the
world, has been built up in response to many different require-
ments.

(1) Behavior must be flexible as a function of the environment. If
a system cannot make itself respond in whatever way is needed, it
hardly can be mind-like. (2) Flexibility by itself is only a means—it
must be in the service of goals and rationally related to obtaining
the things and conditions that let the organism survive and propa-
gate. (3) Mind must operate in real time. That is a very important
demand from the environment in which we find ourselves situated.
(4) The structure of this environment has its own impact. For hu-
mans, the environment is full of richness and detail, changing rap-
idly and simultaneously on many fronts. This overall constraint
shows up in many ways. There must be multiple perceptual sys-
tems, they must all operate concurrently and dynamically, and
some must have high bandwidth. There must be very large
memories, because the environment provides the opportunity to

