64 = Unified Theories of Cognition

medium itself must equally be capable of combinatorial variety—
which means there must be a set of independently variable parts,

Second, the medium must have high stability so that what is
processed can be retained. But it must have low stability when it is
being transformed, so that the transformation can be done at will.
Furthermore, the energy costs must be modest relative to the ac-
tions ultimately involved, because doing a transformation at will in
the service of other behaviors of the organism implies not often
having to take the costs of doing it into account.

Third, there must be completeness of possible transformations.
How much and what sort of variety is possible in the transforma-
tions translates directly into what representation laws can be
satisfied. But even ignoring the issue of qualitative variety, there is
again the issue of potential combinatorial variety in the transforma-
tions that arises (at the very least) from the combinatorial variety of
their inputs and outputs.

Fourth, since these transformations must at some point be
created, the ease of determining compositions is important. The
demands of representation arise as the needs arise for novel action,
which is to say, more or less continually, especially when consid-
ered in detail. A good representation system has the character that
the organism can do with it what the organism wants, so to speak,
not what the representation requires. This is just the opposite of
what characterizes an analogical Tepresentation, where the organ-
ism does nothing, so to speak, and what the representation requires
is what the organism needs, Thus, malleability of the medium and
freedom of transformability are prime qualities of a representational
system,

The transformations are expressed in some medium, which need
not be the same as the medium used for the representation, though
it might be and was in Figure 2-7. Its key property is executability.
The medium itself can be passive, and then it must be interpretable
by some other process, which is the familiar situation with Pro-
gramming languages. Alternatively, the medium can be active, and
then it must be evocable. In either case, there is a dual aspect in
which the medium is passive while being composed and then shifts
at some controllable moment to being active. In addition, since
transformations must be composed, the medium needs ail the good
Properties of any representing medium. It might seem that there is
an infinite regress here, because there is need for a composable

