210 s Unified Theories of Cognition

tors for manipulating sequences plus search control for selecting
them to do the subset test.

To design such an algorithm, Soar must cast it as search in a
problem space. Soar is trying to find a conditional sequence of
operations (Figure 4-19). To find such a thing requires a problem
space of partial algorithms—fragments and parts of Figure 4-19.
The initial state is the null algorithm (no algorithm at all) and a
desired state would be the algorithm of the figure (verified to find
the subset of positive items in a set). The operators would con-
struct, modify, and combine fragments of algorithms. Both De-
signer and Cypress formulated the task this way, and so did the
Soar systems based on them.

However, there is another option. This takes the abstract opera-
tions of the algorithm—generate, test, and the rest—as the
operators of a space. The states of this space are partially tested
sets of items. The initial state is the initial set and the desired state
is the set fully tested. If a sequence of operators can be applied to
the initial state to produce the desired state, then that sequence
certainly provides a way of testing the set. If Soar chose the opera-
tors because of the particular items in the initial state, then Soar
would just have done a particular test. But if the states represent a
general set of items, and Soar is still able to test it, then the se-
quence of operators that it goes through must be a general algo-
tithm. Of course, no simple preset sequence of operators will
suffice. There must be conditionals, which is what algorithms are all
about, namely, specifying conditional steps on the basis of the ac-
tual data already input. In fact, general operators, such as test and
compare, actually don’t do anything to a set of items, they just
acquire information about it on which to base decisions of what
operations to apply later. Thus, the actual states of this space are
not just partially tested subsets of items; they also have a represen-
tation of what is known about the subset. That is, the items are
augmented with assertions about their status or what prior opera-
tions have been performed on them—knowledge on which to base
the decision of what operation to apply next.

Designer-Soar uses this second option. It might seem a little
arcane, as described, but it is a very common strategy both for
humans and for AI systems. For instance, consider theorem prov-
ing in logic, for which many computer programs have been built
(Loveland, 1978). If the task is to find a proof, then the natural
