74 « Unified Theories of Cognition

that knowledge is acquired. What is certain is that the knowledge
must be accessed and retrieved.

Figure 2-10 shows the general situation. It is a law of nature that
processing in the physical world is always local, that is, always
takes places in a limited region of physical space. This is equivalent
to there being no action at a distance, or, somewhat more specifi-
cally, that causal effects propagate with an upper velocity of c, the
speed of light in vacuo. Consequently, any computational system
ultimately does its work by localized processing within localized
Tegions in space. What guides or determines this processing task
must then also be local. If the task is small enough or simple
enough, then the processes could have been assembled within the
local region and the task accomplished. Ultimately, there is no
alternative to doing it this way. If the processing is complex
enough, though, additional structure from outside the local region
will be required at some point during the processing. If it is re-
quired, it must be obtained. If it must be obtained, then some pro-
cess must do it, using structure within the local region to determine
when and how to go outside.

The symbol token is the device in the medium that determines
where to go outside the local region to obtain more structure. The
process has two phases: first, the opening of access to the distal
structure that is needed; and second, the retrieval (transport) of that
structure from its distal location to the local site, so it can actually
affect the processing. When to go outside is determined by when
the processing encounters the symbol token in a fashion that re-
quires the missing structure. Thus, when processing *'The cat is on
the mat’’ (which is itself a physical structure of some sort) the local
computation at some point encounters “‘cat’’; it must go from
“‘cat’’ to a body of (encoded) knowledge associated with ‘‘cat’’ and
bring back something that represents that a cat is being referred to,
that the word ‘‘cat’’ is a noun (and perhaps other possibilities), and
so on. Exactly what knowledge is retrieved and how it is organized
depend on the processing scheme. In all events, the structure of the
token “‘cat’’ does not contain all the needed knowledge.'? It is
elsewhere and must be accessed and retrieved.

10. It can of course contain some of it—symbol tokens can be codes. The virtue of
coding knowledge into the token is apparent from Figure 2-10, for it avoids the need for
access and retrieval.

