Immediate Behavior # 283

seriously as a theory of cognition. The domain is quite specific—
immediate speeded reaction-time tasks—but it is an especially im-
portant one for Soar, for the theory as developed originally and
described in Chapter 4 was oriented toward problem solving and
learning, not toward immediate-response data. Thus, one aspect of
this exercise is to establish that a unified theory of cognition must
stretch across the full spectrum of tasks.

We did not construct our models by writing production systems
that performed the tasks. Instead, we established a more abstract
level of analysis. By an analysis of the general task situation—
speeded, low-error, immediate-response tasks—in conjunction
with the Soar architecture as a constraint, we established a set of
functional operations (P, E, and the others). These operations do
not define an independent system level, but they approximate what
could have been obtained by the more extensive analysis using
operators defined completely by productions, plus the E and D
productions.

The key element in the functional level of analysis is that the
actual programs that perform the task are not written. The basic
assumption is that, if the knowledge is encoded in the current state
in working memory, then the recognitions and discriminations (to
wit, the search control} can be taken for granted to execute in the
right order the actions that are necessary. Furthermore, the costs of
that control can be captured approximately, simply by the need to
select operators. This assumption gets rid of the need actually to
program the tasks.

It should not have escaped notice that Figure 5-11 is a single
specific algorithm. There are many minor variations in the way
processing could have gone. The typing could have been generated
as each letter was attained, the breakdown might not have been via
syllables but directly from the whole word, and on and on. It is
unknown which variation a given person uses. Indeed, different
people will use different algorithms, although they all satisfy the
same broad functional requirements. John’s original theory of SRC
handled this problem by considering all reasonably efficient al-
gorithms and averaging over them to get its final prediction (the
2,573 ms quoted above). There were actually about 50 different
algorithms, most of which were within a few hundred ms of each
other and constituted minor permutations of a few basic schemes.

The predictions made here by Soar (and the MHP) have a special

