92 = Unified Theories of Cognition

tem can be perfectly intelligent with respect to realizing some goals
and making use of some knowledge, and not intelligent at all with
respect to other goals and other knowledge. Intelligence as defined
is not a measure, but a description of adequacy over the joint range
of two complex domains, the system's goals and the system's
knowledge.

An important consequence of the relative nature of intelligence is
the need to keep distinct the task of acquiring knowledge to perform
some other task, Let T be some task, say, purchasing items in a
grocery. A person has a certain body of knowledge at the moment
of performing 7, and an assessment of intelligence is made with
respect to that knowledge. If the person had additional knowledge,
then the assessment would have been different. For instance, a
person who does not know how to do arithmetic would not perform
well. But this does not imply low intelligence. It might be thought
that the person should know arithmetic, hence that there is a failure
of intelligence. In that case, the task being assessed is not T but the
task of acquiring arithmetic, call it AA. In other words, perfor-
mance on AA might have been unintelligent, or perhaps the task of
deciding whether to learn arithmetic (ta do AA) was performed
unintelligently. Assessment of the intelligence exercised in any of
those tasks requires knowing the knowledge available at the time. A
person's life is full of tasks, and each raises its own issue of how
intelligently it is performed.

This definition sharply separates knowledge from intelligence.
They are not the same thing at all. Many common intuitions of
intelligence mix the two together, We expect an intelligent person
to know certain things, Every intelligent person, we believe, should
know how to add, should know how to get around ina city, should
know, weil, all kinds of commonsense things, as well as having
learned what was taught at school. On the other hand, many com-
mon intuitions separate knowledge and intelligence. No amount of
intelligence can arrive at brute facts that don’t happen to be known,
such as the lifetime batting average of Roberto Clemente. Of
course, most intelligent members of a social community do know a
common body of knowledge, because the society faces its members
with many tasks of knowledge acquisition, and intelligent people
succeed at these tasks, thus acquiring the associated bodies of
knowledge. That knowledge and intelligence have some strong link-
ages does not imply that knowledge and intelligence are the same
thing,

D>

<
