the occasion to rethink more generally the current status of copa
tive science and where it should be going, What emerged was the
general thesis about unified theories of cognition. with Soar playing
the role of exemplar rather than a theory ready to compete on an
‘even footing with other theories. But the effort internally (at home,
$0 10 speak) was to convert Soar to a cognitive theory. ‘That is
where my friends came in

To “convert” an existing AL system toa cognitive theory seems
perhaps a rather strange operation, In the event, there turned out to
be two activites, The fist can only be described as contempla
tion—contemplate Soar in the light of everything knew abs
hhuman cognition, to sce what fis and what does, how the mecha
nisms fare, und what role they play in explaining psychological
‘phenomena, Though Soar presented itself asa fixed set of mecha
isms, these were open to adaptation under the press of becoming a
theory of human cognition, This act of contemplation was my prin-
cipal occupation during much of 986, whatever might have seemed
to be the case from my daly appearance. The second setivity was
tovattempt to se Soar as a theory of cognition to model and explain
in detail specific psychological phenomena and data in wide range:
bf domains: in sHor, to exercise Soar. That was also to be my task
‘Alas the act of contemplation 100k hold of me and late fall of 1986
arrived with no exercising accomplished, but with the fist Teeture
Scheduled for the coming February, only a few months away.

Tid then what I had long promised myself never to do. 1 mobi
lized my graduate students, sidetracking them from their other re
search on Soar, each to take some domain of cognitive phenomena
fand help me apply Soar to that domain in an interesting way. Let
ie the rou of hat wax done oie <td n each of hee
friends. Bonnie John and I mapped the stimulus-response compat
tiny rel of her ongoing esearch int Soar ad a te work on
transcription typing (in Chapter 5). Olin Shivers and 1 produced a
detailed Soar simulation of the early eryptarithmetic studies of
[Newell and Simon (1972) (in Chapter 7). Thad Polk and I initiated
research on syllogistc reasoning and developed detailed simulation
‘models ofthat phenomena (in Chapter 3). Gregg Yost and I devel
‘oped an approach to malurl-kanguage comprehension in Soar so we
could model the sentence verification studies of Clark and Chase
(1972); and we extended this Soar system to taking instructions (in
‘Chapter 7). Rex Flynn and I explored the issue of transition mecha-

