tmmediate Behavior » 243

questions. (30) What is the speed-accuracy trade-off? If a person
attempts to type faster, how much will errors increase? Unlike
regularity (23) on the improvement of digrams, whose significance
is not generally clear, we all believe that speed-accuracy trade-offs
are highly relevant. (31) How fast do people lear typing? Does
learning follow the power law? We would predict assuredly yes;
and it is nice to have the regularity confirmed (Gentner, 1983). (32)
Essentially all of the results have been taken on the standard
Qwerty keyboard. What are the positive and negative transfers to
keyboards of other layouts (such as the Dvorek or the alphabetical
keyboard)? (33) What is typing’s relation to Fitts’ law (Figure 1-1)?
After all, the situation involves moving a finger a certain distance to
hit a target of a certain size (the key), so Fitts’ law should apply.
(34) One last omnibus issue: Almost all of Salthouse’s regularities
are quoted as comparisons, shifts, frequencies, and correlations.
Behind them lie detailed distributions, which are also a function of
skill level and must show individual differences. Knowing these
details would perhaps not lead to new distinct regularities, but they
would certainly add constraint to the architecture.

Thus, we arrive at about a third of a hundred regularities about
this one small area alone. Any candidate architecture must deal
with most of these if it’s going to explain typing. That was Salt-
house's aim—to put forth a profile of results that characterized the
behavior of the area. Of course, there is no reason to focus on
typing. It is just one of a hundred specialized areas of cognitive
behavior. It takes only a hundred areas at thirty regularities per
area to reach the ~~3,000 total regularities cited at the beginning of
this chapter. I haven't tried to enumerate either the areas or the
regularities within areas, but a scattering of regularities has oc-
curredihroughoutthe book—Fitts’ law, the power law of practice,
a few automatic/controlled search results in item recognition (Fig-
ure 3-8). There will be others. Any architecture, especially a candi-
date for a unified theory of cognition, must deal with them all—
hence with thousands of regularities.

This is for me the Great Psychology Data Puzzle. My bet is that
enough constraining regularities already exist in the literature to
identify the architecture to all intents and purposes. We could stop
doing experiments entirely and, just from what now exists, discover
what the architecture is. This is not to say we must identify some
specific genius who will solve this puzzle for us. Rather, this is an

