Symbolic Processing far Intelligence « 159

Given that the human is the kind of system described in the last two
chapters, it is the architecture—the fixed (or slowly varying) struc-
ture—that underlies the communalities the system will show in
behavior. An architecture is the system of mechanisms that acces-
ses encoded knowledge about the external world held in memory
and brings it to bear to select actions in the service of goals. If it
works perfectly the actions reflect only this external knowledge—
the system behaves as a knowledge-level system. Such a system
has no psychology. Psychology enters in precisely as the process-
ing of the encoded memory structures shows through. It is the
architecture that determines the shape of this processing.

The focus through most of this chapter will be on how a total
system can actually realize intelligent behavior. We will first dis-
cuss the architecture for central cognition, that is, for the symbolic
part of the architecture, and next the phenomenon of learning from
experience, which interpenetrates all of central cognition. Then
we'll back off a bit and describe the total cognitive system within
which the central system is embedded, namely perceptual and
motor processing. With the total context in place, we will illustrate
how the central system functions and attempt to characterize its
abilities. As we move through all this, we will not attend to how
these details correspond to human behavior. The architecture, of
course, instantiates all the constraints described earlier, so it will be
the right sort, generally speaking. Indeed, much about Soar will
seem highly familiar given the groundwork that has been laid. At
the end of the chapter, once the full specifications are before us, we
will consider the mapping of Soar onto human cognition. The exam-
ination of the details and consequences of that mapping will be the
task of the rest of the book. But by the close of this chapter we will
be able‘to ask whether Soar describes a cognitive beast that is
recognizably human.

4.1. The Central Architecture for Performance

The central architecture refers to the mechanisms of cognition, but
not of perception or motor behavior. As already noted in Chapter 1,
one thing wrong with much theorizing about cognition is that it does
not pay much attention to perception on the one side or motor
behavior on the other, It separates these two systems out. The
