Foundations of Cognitive Science « 95

permanently into a given form) (Cattell, 1971). A further reflection
of this notion occurs in the concept of culture-fair tests, which are
tests that do not depend on any knowledge that could vary with
the culture of the individual. Actually, the same distinction lies be-
hind the intuitive split between domain knowledge and domain-
independent knowledge, in the expert-systems field,

One basis for communalities, such as g and fluid intelligence,
comes from using the same underlying mechanisms over and over
again. If different mechanisms could be used for different tasks
indefinitely, there need not be anything in common in the abilities of
people to solve different tasks. The existence of common mecha-
nism starts, of course, with the architecture. Hence, one could
expect more communality within a species, which presumptively
has a common architecture, than across species or across more
widely varying intelligent agents. And one should expect even more
communality among people with common bodies of knowledge.

This theory of intelligence does not immediately provide what
society has come to desire froma theory of intelligence, namely, a
way to develop intelligence and ability tests that assign to any per-
son one magnitude (or a few) on some scale indicating intelligence
or ability. The theory here describes what intelligence is, not how
to measure it numerically. No new measurement scheme flows in-
stantly from the theory—which does not say that none can.

In sum, this definition of intelligence does not stand sui generis as
an independently posited theory or basis for analysis. It has not
been fashioned in order to be useful for this or that purpose. Rather,
it flows from the fundamental framework of cognitive science and,
within that framework, it provides a useful construct. Its relation-
ship to the traditional psychometric notions of intelligence is prob-
lematical, but mostly because the relationship of cognitive psychol-
ogy to psychometrics remains problematical, despite much recent
scholarship.

2.8. Search and Problem Spaces

What processing is required for intelligent behavior? That is, how
does a system behave in order to utilize its knowledge to attain its
goals? The most general answer is quite uninformative—it will pro-
cess the representations containing its knowledge and behave ac-
cordingly. But what can be said about the form such processing will

