CAT VISUAL CORTEX 149

be important in binocular vision, for it means that when the two images
produced by an object fall on corresponding parts of the two retinas, their
separate effects on a cortical cell should sum. Failure of the images to fall
on corresponding regions, which might happen if an object were closer than
the point of fixation or further away, would tend to reduce the summation ;
it could even lead to mutual antagonism if excitatory parts of one field
were stimulated at the same time as inhibitory parts of the other. It should
be emphasized that for all simple fields and for many complex ones the two
eyes may work either synergistically or in Opposition, depending on how
the receptive fields are stimulated; when identical stimuli are shone on
corresponding parts of the two retinas their effects should always sum.

Although in the cortex the proportion of binocularly influenced cells is
high, the mixing of influences from the two eyes is far from complete. Not
only are many single cells unequally influenced by the two eyes, but the
Telative eye dominance differs greatly trom one cell to another. This could
simply reflect an intermediate stage in the process of mixing of influences
from the two eyes; im that case we might expect an increasing uniformity
in the eye preference of higher-order cells. But cells with complex fields
do not appear to differ, in their distribution among the different eye-
dominance groups, from the general population of cortical cells (Text-fig.
12). At present we have no clear notion of the physiological significance
of this incomplete mixing of iniiuences from the two eyes. One possible
hint lies in the fact that by binocular parallax alone (even with a stimulus
too brief to allow changes in the convergence of the eyes) one can tell
which of two objects is the closer (Dove, 1841; von Recklinghausen, 1861).
This would clearly be impossible if the two retinas were connected to the
brain in identical fashion, for then the eyes (or the two pictures of a
Stereo-pair) could be interchanged without substituting near points for
far ones and vice versa.

Comparison of receptive fields in the frog and the cai

Units in many respects similar to striate cortical cells with complex
fields have recently been isolated from the intact optic nerve and the optic
tectum of the frog (Lettvin, Maturana, MeCulloch & Pitts, 1959; Maturana,
Lettvin, McCulloch & Pitts, 1960). There is indirect evidence to suggest
that the units are the non-myelinated axons or axon terminals of retinal
ganglion cells, rather than tectal cells or efferent optic nerve fibres. In
common with complex cortical cells, these units respond to objects and
shadows in the visual field in ways that could not have been predicted
from responses to small spots of light. They thus have ‘complex’ pro-
perties, in the sense that we have used this term. Yet in their detailed
behaviour they differ greatly from any cells yet studied in the cat, at any

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
