238 « Unified Theories of Cognition

a copy by means of a typewriter. It is a common enough activity,
though a relatively minute and arcane corner of the psychology
world, out of the mainstream of experimental activity. Actually,
there is a long history of investigation of typing, and more recently
a modest flurry of activity (Cooper, 1983), but it doesn’t compete
for attention or resources with many other areas of experimental
work, such as lexical access, automaticity, or short-term memory.
In late 1986, however, Tim Salthouse published a paper in the Psy-
chological Bulletin in which he listed 29 robust regularities for typ-
ing. Figure 5-1 lists them in abbreviated form (Salthouse, £986).
These regularities had been confirmed by more than one investiga-
tor, often in many studies, so there is reasonable confidence they
exist. All of these 29 regularities constrain the architecture. Any
proposed cognitive architecture must produce them. Of course, the
architecture alone cannot do so. An architecture by itself can't do
anything. It must be augmented with procedures, plans, programs,
or whatever is the form that procedural content takes in the ar-
chitecture. Therefore, all glimpses of the architecture require disen-
tangling the effects of the content from the architecture. But typing
involves rapid response to the environment. The typist takes in text
from manuscripts and strikes keys to reproduce them, continu-
ously, at ~~! word a second (~~60 wpm). This behavior is fairly
close to the architecture, then, but whereas every candidate ar-
chitecture can type, we can confidently expect that not every one
will also exhibit ali 29 of these regularities.

Let us go through the list briefly, in order to get some feeling for
what such a collection of regularities amounts to. It is important to
see that discovering the cognitive architecture is not like the task of
finding a physical principle to explain a single parabolic curve that
describes a ball rolling down an incline. The desired architecture
must satisfy the conjunction of a huge set of regularities.

To begin with phenomenon (1), typing is faster than a reaction
time. The time between hitting one key and the next, called the
interkey interval (177 ms in one experiment, or 68 wpm), is over
twice as fast as the time it would take to see the letter and select it
(516 ms in the same experiment).'! However (2), typing is slower

1, The actual two-choice reaction task was L or / to one key, and R or r to another
key. This is more complex, hence slower, than the simplest two-choice reaction task (L
to one key, & to another), which takes about 350 ms, but even this latter is slower than
going from any letter to its key,
