232 « Unified Theories of Cognition

intelligence that it might permit a significant step in that direction,
but no direct demonstrations of that have been attempted yet.
Whether chunking covers the full range of learning remains another
issue on which the current demonstrations, being simply enumera-
tive, are not definitive.

Finally, it is easy to name aspects that are simply missing in the
version of Soar developed to date—emotion, dreams, imagery.
These phenomena might require entirely new structures, different
in kind from the current mechanisms of Soar. Insofar as that is not
the case, the burden of proof rests on Soar to show how such
phenomena are to be explained within the current architecture.
This has not been done yet.

One other summary of Soar might be useful. In Chapter 1 we
considered a list of the many different constraints that impinge on
the nature of mind. One reason we need a unified theory is to bring
to bear all those different constraints within one theory. We must
first ask if Soar is adequate in terms of the constraints it was de-
signed to take into account. It is a separate question whether it
might also be responsive to other constraints. Let us start with
design intentions. Figure 4-25 lists the same constraints given in
Figure 1-7, but added to it are indications whether Soar was de-
signed to deal with each given constraint.

Much effort went into making Soar flexible, for flexibility is re-
quired for universal computation and is shared by all reasonable
computational systems. We also focused on the constraint of oper-
ating in real time. This is probably the biggest new constraint we
tried to respond to, The inability to put universality and real-time
response together in the same system removes whole realms of
computational systems, such as standard theorem provers, from
the list of candidates for unified theories of cognition.

With respect to the richness of the environment, we deliberately
designed for having vast amounts of knowledge. This is embodied
in the notion of an indefinitely large recognition system (production
system). But the other two aspects of interaction with the environ-
ment—the rich perceptual input and output having large degrees of
freedom—received very little attention. The design of the total sys-
tem (Figure 4-5) only begins to address some of the issues and is
silent on the issues of scale and complexity, which is the real import
of the constraint.

Soar is fully responsive to having symbols and abstractions. This

