332 s Unified Theories of Cognition

. Separate generated object from test if it is correct
2. Test can contain result object in conditions
1 3. Generator must not consult result abject
: Producing result is separate from efficiency
: Search control is never chunked, as it affects only efficiency
4. Multiple approaches exist for generator
Construct object (object is search control)
| Search for object (cue object is search control}

Figure 6-10. Basic principles of Soar's solution
to the data-chunking problem.

learning, Soar should create for itself a task to be solved by gener-
ate and test. It is alright for the test to contain the result, namely
GID. The test is to find an instance of GID, so the test not only can
have GID in some condition, it should have it. As long as the
generator doesn’t produce GID by consulting the given object
(GID}, then GID will not occur in the conditions of the chunk that
will be built.

How might such a generator of GID be achieved? One way would
be just to start generating --GAA, GAB, GAC, GAD, and, even-
tually, GID, at which point the test, which is looking for GID, will
say that's it! This method indeed solves the data-chunking problem,
because nothing in the generator has consulted GID in producing its
results, hence the chunk has BAJ in the condition and GID in the
action.

You may be thinking, Yes, but at what cost! Indeed, a generation
of this sort could take a fair amount of time. After all, it could not
actually start with GAA, but would have to start with something
like AAA, and maybe not even AAA but with A, and all single
letters, before starting over with AA, and then all pairs, before even
getting to AAA. Thus, although the solution is feasible, it could be
extremely costly.

This leads to the next part of the solution. In problem spaces,
producing a result is separate from the efficiency of producing the
result. A problem space is given by a set of operators (with the set
of states to which the operators apply). A problem is given by
starting at an initial state and finding a desired state. A solution is
attained by applying one operator after another until a desired state
is produced, without concern for what operators are applied or in
what order, as long as they are in the space. The search in the space

