264 « Unified Theories of Cognition

The system must already be located at the place where the stimulus
element will arrive, and must expect it there. Note that attend is not
an eye-movement operation.

Comprehend is the function of assuring that a new perceptual
element is what was expected and in the form needed for continued
processing. It involves both recognition and labeling or re-rep-
resenting, as required. This interpretive function in general cannot
be moved out into the E-productions. There is no way to produce
new E-productions in the short term, in response to particular de-
mands, and they cannot be controlled as a function of the task—
once there, they will just fire. So E-productions cannot be orga-
nized to be. a task-responsive system. The application of this
principle requires some care. E-productions, of course, are condi-
tonal, so they can have some task conditionality built in, but their
conditionality is built in once and for all at the time of creation
(which occurred longGrior tothe task under consideration).

Comprehension is performed by an operator. If a sufficiently
complex comprehension is required, then this operator has to break
out into an implementation space, but there are limits to the amount
of processing that can occur for immediate-response tasks. The
duration of comprehend increases with the complexity of the
stimulus object—what it takes to identify it and its task-relevant
aspects—and decreases with preparation, which is again the extent
to which the comprehension task has been narrowed down to what
is essential. How much preparation is possible depends on the de-
tails of the task.

Tasking is the function of setting a task to be performed. This
task cannot be set by an impasse occurring, since the system is
already at the top level. Thus, tasking must occur by an operator
being selected in BLS that augments the current state so that both
comprehend and intend can know what to do. This operator and the
search control that proposes it must be a part of the system’s long-
term memory. There is, therefore, a question of how such operators
got created and established in the first place. Pursuing this would
take us far from immediate behavior. The answer for most im-
mediate-response tasks is in terms of prior instructions and prepa-
ration. But additional questions lie behind that answer, such as why
the person accepted the instructions.

For immediate-response tasks, it is always possible to perform
the tasking operator prior to the presentation of the stimulus. In
