Immediate Behavior = 241

percent. (11) There are also a lot of specific differences in the inter-
keystroke intervals depending on the exact context, namely, the
exact preceding characters. (12) Skilled typists can do many other
tasks at the same time as they type. They can type and read some-
thing else concurrently, or type and listen to something else concur-
rently. This automaticity is greater the more skilled the typist.

We now arrive at various spans, which are measured to find out
how much information is kept in the system under various condi-
tions. (13) There is the copy span. If the text is suddenly removed,
how long can typing continue? The copy span is about 13.2 charac-
ters. (14) There is the stopping span. If a stop signal is suddenly
given, how quickly can typing cease? That’s 1-2 characters. (15)
There is the eye-hand span. How far ahead in the text are your eyes
looking from where you are typing? Quantifying this span depends
on accurate measurement of gaze direction. The eye-hand span is
between 3 and 8 characters, somewhat less than the copy span. (16)
The eye-hand span decreases as the meaning of the text decreases.
It drops from about 3.5 characters for fully meaningful text to 1.7
characters for meaningless text. (17) There is the replacement span.
How many characters can be surreptitiously replaced without any
effect on the typing (or the typist noticing it}? A special experimen-
tal arrangement is required to make these changes in a controlled
way dynamically. This span is ~3 characters. All these different
spans tell something about what is going on inside the typist’s head.
They result from a combination of the method used in typing and
the architecture. Different architectures would lead to different
profiles of these spans. With a simple enough architecture, several
of them would be the same.

The next set of regularities is about errors. (18) Typists can often
detect that an error has been made even though they have no per-
ceptual feedback about what they typed (40-70 percent of the
time). That they know an error has occurred implies something
about a self-monitoring capability of the architecture. (19) Substitu-
tion errors occur when one fetter is typed in place of another, bpat
instead of boat. Such errors usually involve adjacent keys. (20)
Intrusion errors occur when an additional letter is inserted, bigat
for boat, and most happen very quickly (short interkey intervals).
QU Omission errors occur when a letter is left out, bat for boat.
Such errors tend to be followed by long interkey intervals, about
twice the median size. (22) Transposition errors are the interchange

al

