CAT VISUAL CORTEX 147

perception, that movement must excite receptors not continuously but in
sequence.

Finally, the above remarks apply equally well to displacements of retinal
images caused by small eye movements. The normal eye is not stationary,
but is subject to several types of fine movements. There is psychophysical
6vidence that in man these may play an important part in Vision, trans-
forming a steady stimulus produced by a stationary object into an inter-
mittent one, so overcoming adaptation in visual cells (Ditchburn &
Ginsborg, 1952; Riggs, Ratliit, Cornsweet & Cornsweet, 1953). At an early
stage in the visual pathway the effect of such movements would be to excite
many cells repeatedly and in turn, rather than just a few continuously. A
given line or border would move back and forth over a small retinal region;
in the cortex this would sequentially activate many cells with simple fields.
Since large rotatory movements are not involved, these fields would have
the same axis orientations but would differ only in their exact retinal
positions. They would converge on higher-order cells with complex fields,
and these would tend to be activated continuously rather than inter-
mittently.

Functional cytoarchitecture

There is an interesting parallel between the functional subdivisions of
the cortex described in the present paper, and those found in somato-
sensory cortex by Mounteastle (1957) in the cat, and by Powell & Mount-
castle (1959) in the monkey. Here, as in the visual area, one can subdivide
the cortex on the basis of responses to natural stimuli into regions
which are roughly columnar in shape, and extend from surface to white
matter. This is especially noteworthy since the visual and somatic areas
are the only cortical regions so far studied at the single-cell level from
the standpoint of functional architecture. In both areas the columnar
organization is superimposed upon the well known. systems of topographic
representation—of the body surface in the one case, and the visual fields
in the other. In the somatosensory cortex the columns are determined by
the sensory submodality to which the cells of a column respond: in one
type of column the cells are affected either by light touch or by bending of
hairs, whereas im the other the cells respond to stimulation of deep fascia
or manipulation of joints.

Several differences between the two systems will at once be apparent.
In the visual cortex the columns are determined by the criterion of receptive-
field axis orientation. Presumably there are as many types of column as
there are recognizable differences in orientation. At present one can be
sure that there are at least ten or twelve, but the number may be very
large, since it is possible that, no two columns represent precisely the same
axis orientation. (A subdivision of cells or of columns into twelve groups

10-2

Downloaded from J Physiol (jp.physoc.org) by guest on October 9, 2009
