600 = Unified Theories of Cognition

tension of the GOMS techniques down to a finer temporal grain.
Thus, we can take Soar as the foundation for a second iteration of
the Model Human Processor, which already moves well beyond the
initial MHP, both in scope and in detail.

Other areas that are integral to interaction but that Soar has not
yet covered are listed below the line in the figure. One is visual
search and inspection. Lots of good regularities exist here, with not
only very good data but also good quantitative models (Teichner &
Krebs, 1974; Teichner & Mocharnuk, 1979). No attempt has yet
been made to extend Soar to this domain, in part because it depends
critically on the perceptual structure of Soar, which is not yet in
sufficient shape for such an exploration. However, many of the
existing visual-search models do not require any more of perception
than transcription typing requires of the motor system. This is an
excellent area in which to extend Soar with every expectation of
success.

Another area is the use of external temporary (or scratch) mem-
ory in rapid feedback situations, Here there is not much data in the
literature, and there may be interesting surprises. There are actu-
ally two areas here. One is the idea, currently termed situatedness,
that the external environment is as much a source of knowledge for
what the human does as is long-term memory (Suchman, 1988). The
second is the external short-term temporary memory, in which the
human builds a rapid (~~1 sec) feedback loop between himself and
an easily modified and accessed external medium. The former is
beginning to receive a lot of attention; but this latter still has not
evoked the experimental work necessary to lay out the basic regu-
larities.

The collection listed in the figure is almost a complete set of
activities that occur at the display interface in modern interactive
computing. Soar does not quite cover the set, and even in those
activities where some work has been done with Soar, there is still
much to do. Yet, it is a reasonable research goal to set for Soar that
it cover the entire collection. Such coverage would indeed create a
new version of a Model Human Processor that would be able to
deal in an integrated way with the tasks at the interface.

Actually, the most important thing about applications is their rela-
tion to science in the other direction—not what unified theories of
cognition can do for applications, but what applications can do for
cognitive theories. Applications provide crucial ingredients for the

