                • If the paper includes experiments, a No answer to this question will not be perceived
                 well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of
                 whether the code and data are provided or not.
                • If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken
                 to make their results reproducible or verifiable.
                • Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways.
                 For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully
                 might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may
                 be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same
                 dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often
                 one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed
                 instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case
                 of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are
                 appropriate to the research performed.
                • While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submis-
                 sions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the
                 nature of the contribution. For example
                 (a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how
                   to reproduce that algorithm.
                 (b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe
                   the architecture clearly and fully.
                 (c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should
                   either be a way to access this model for reproducing the results or a way to reproduce
                   the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct
                   the dataset).
                 (d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case
                   authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility.
                   In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in
                   someway(e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers
                   to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results.
              5. Openaccess to data and code
               Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instruc-
               tions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
               material?
               Answer: [No]
               Justification: We only provide the Pytorch implementation of our methods in the Appendix.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
                • Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https://nips.cc/
                 public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy)formoredetails.
                • While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
                 possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
                 including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
                 benchmark).
                • The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
                 reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
                 //nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy)formoredetails.
                • The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
                 to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
                • The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
                 proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
                 should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
                • At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
                 versions (if applicable).
                               24
