76 ® Unified Theories of Cognition

any event, such symbol systems could look somewhat different
from the sort of symbol systems we are accustomed to.

We finally arrive at symbol systems (Newell & Simon, 1976;
Newell, 1980a), a familiar notion in cognitive science.!! Figure 2-11
lists the essential ingredients. Symbol systems are a form of univer-
sal computational system. This particular form brings out clearly
the major assumptions in such systems while avoiding the highly
particular arrangements that usually accompany the specification of
a computational system, such as the sequential tape, reading head,
and five-tuple of a Turing machine (Minsky, 1967).

There is a memory, which has structures that contain symbol
tokens. The memory is independently modifiable at some grain size
of the structure, because of the demand that the memory be capable
of combinatorial variety. Within the grain size, structures may ex-
hibit various dependencies, so that changing one part of the struc-
ture brings with it other changes. The constraints on the forms of
language expressions and data structures are exactly such local
dependencies. Symbol tokens are pattems in symbol structures that
provide access to distal structures, namely, other structures in the
memory. They are analogous to the symbols in Lisp, which are
addresses that allow additional Lisp expressions to be obtained.
There are symbol operations that compose structures from other
structures. There are many variations on these operations, some
building new structures and others modifying old structures.

Some memory structures (not necessarily all) have the property
of determining that a sequence of symbol operations occur on
specific symbol structures. These structures are called variously
Programs, plans, or procedures. The process of applying the opera-
tions is called interpreting the symbol structure, Interpretation can
happen in a variety of ways, The program can be read to determine
each successive operation, which is then evoked. Alternatively, the
program can be compiled into a different program and the fatter
interpreted. Yet another alternative is to construct a specific
special-purpose machine that embodies the operations and then
execute it. These all come to the same thing—the ability to convert
from symbol structures to behavior. Since this behavior can form

1. They are often called physical symbol systems to emphasize their origin in com-
puter science and artificial intelligence, rather than in common usage, philosophy, or the
humanities, [n the curtent context, the shorter phrase will do.

“Y
casey

