Symbolic Processing for intelligence = 194

lem spaces, learn anything and everything that Soar sets up sub-
goals for. Such a general description cannot be taken completely at
face value—it is not obvious how well chunking will work. How-
ever, we will see many demonstrations throughout the book that
lend credence to this description.

That Soar can learn anything does not mean that Soar will tearn
everything. Soar learns only from what the system experiences. It
is experience-based learning. Thus, the key question is, what will
Soar experience? But this is essentially impossible to ascertain.
What tasks will Soar attempt? This question has both an external
and an internal aspect, or, better said, a macro aspect and a micro
aspect. At the macrolevel, what tasks come Soar’s way from the
environment is both important and strongly influenced by aspects
outside Soar, such as what task users feed to it. But how Soar takes
these tasks and decomposes them into problem spaces (the mi-
crolevel) is also important. The learning that finally occurs (the
chunking) depends intimately on the microstructure of these
spaces, which in turn depends on the knowledge that has been built
up by all of the prior experience. Furthermore, these aspects feed
back on each other, since the learning that occurs determines the
spaces that occur subsequently. In sum, any theory of what Soar
will learn must occur within a larger theory of the environments
Soar inhabits, how tasks arise, and how they get defined—in short,
a total theory of Soar as an agent in the world.

Figure 4-14 provides some feeling for what chunking achieves.
The figure shows the problem space of the three-blocks world.
Each point in the space represents a given configuration of three
blocks. Blocks-world problems are to go from some initial configu-
ration to some desired configuration. The blocks are labled A, B,
and C so it can be seen what blocks must move into what positions.
There are effectively only three desired arrangements (heavy out-
lined in the figure): three one-block stacks, one two-block stack and
one one-block stack, and one three-block stack. All other arrange-
ments differ only in their labeling; but the labels themselves are
arbitrary, so we may use the desired arrangement to set the labels in
a fixed way. Hence, all possible blocks-world problems can be
given by picking any one of the 13 points in the space as the initial
point and any of the 3 desired points as the goal state (hence there
are only 3 x 13 = 39 distinct problems, inctuding the 3 identity
problems, out of the 13 x 13 = 169 problems defined as going from

rif
