410 = Unified Theories of Cognition

that go back to the premises and extract more information’in order
to refine the model. Thus, we used simulation to generate parts of
the theory in Soar, by starting with a simulation and asking what its
genesis was in a system that must obtain all of its immediate behav-
ior by learning from experience. This use of simulation to aid theory
construction is much less usual than its use to make predictions, but
it does show the varied ways simulation can help.

7.3. Sentence Verification

We arrive at our third task on the foothills of rationality—ele-
mentary sentence verification. The paradigm for verification has its
roots in the early 1970s. People read simple sentences such as Plus
is above star (Figure 7-12). Then they look at simple pictures and
make a simple indication of whether the sentence was true or false
of the picture, such as by pushing one of two buttons. The entire
business takes 2-3 sec. The task constitutes an elementary, but
complete and quite natural, act of comprehending language, in a
context where language is to be used in a natural and direct way.
The research on these tasks was one step along a long path that
cognitive psychology has been taking to work up from letters to
words to sentences to paragraphs, exploring increasingly complex
linguistic functioning.

To understand how sentences are comprehended, the research-
ers varied the tasks in systematic ways. For instance, the sentences
can be as complex as Star isn’t below plus, a false sentence in our
example. The fundamental result is that the time people take to do
such tasks varies in a highly regular way (there are essentially no
errors with such simple tasks). The figure gives a typical result
(Chase & Clark, 1972). The response time can be decomposed into
a base amount of time (1,763 ms) that covers all the things that do
not vary (perceiving the picture, reading the sentence, making the
response movement); plus an amount of time (685 ms) if the sen-
tence is negative; plus an amount of time (93 ms) if the sentence
uses below rather than above; plus an amount of time (187 ms) if the
sentence is false of the picture. These three factors (on top of the
base time} account quite precisely for all eight combinations of
positive/negative, above/below, and true/false (95-97 percent of
the variance between the means). For the complex case shown in
the figure’s second sentence, the model predicts 2,728 ms versus an

