Sec

132 » Unified Theories of Cognition

By that time some genuine, if perhaps elementary, cognitive behav-
ior needs to be produced.

The base level for the cognitive band must be where the architec-
ture starts. This must include the mechanisms necessary to accom-
plish the basic functions in Figure 2-13. Some mechanisms could
obviously be slower, but only those that were not involved in the
basic operational cycle and that are thus limiting factors on the
speed of the entire system. In particular the base level has to pro-
vide the distal access associated with the symbol system (Figure
2-10). For a symbolic architecture, the symbols, with their ability to
accomplish distal access, must sit at the bottom. Thus, distal access
must be at the neural-circuit Jevel. It can’t be any lower—we've
already seen that signals can’t get across the brain in ~~! ms. Thus
the cognitive architecture itself has to be at the ~~10 ms level at
least. This is looking at the architecture from above, as the begin-
nings of a symbol level. Seen from below, from the neural-circuit
level, what are called symbol structures must be patterns of neural
signals and symbol tokens must be things that open up access paths
to distal parts of the brain.

It is important to understand the form of argument that is about to
take place. We take a function (here, the basic distal access that
identifies the lowest level of the cognitive band) and attempt to
locate it at a given absolute time level. We wish to conclude that the
basic architecture operates at ~~10 ms. We ask three questions.
First, can the function happen faster? The answer here is no. There
is no way the cognitive architecture can be faster than ~~10 ms,
because the neural level (~~! ms) cannot attain distal access. Sec-
ond, can it happen more slowly? The answer here is maybe. It is not
possible to argue directly whether distal access could take ~~ 100
ms or even longer—a minute or a month. Indeed, there could well
be varieties of distal access mechanisms that take a long time.
Instead, we defer the conclusion and proceed to stack up additional
levels that are required to obtain cognitive behavior. Because these
all have to happen before ~~1 sec, we will have the lower-level
behavior hemmed in. Then we can conclude that the function must
occur at the lower level (here ~~10 ms), because if it occurred at
the next jevel up (here ~~ 100 ms) there would be no room for the
other functions to be performed in order to get cognitive behavior
(at ~~! €> Thus the answer to the second question becomes no
only after the analysis is complete. Third, is it possible at the level

