Human Cognitive Architecture = 151

POSSIBLE RESPONSES
(COMPOSABLE)

ENVIRONMENT & GOALS RESPONSE
(REPRESENTATION) ——>+ }—> (DO TASK}

Figure 3-13, The intendedly rational band: knowledge-tevel systems.

The intendedly rational band consists of multiple levels, just as
does any band. All the levels are labeled alike, however, as tasks
(recall Figure 3-3). Each tevel of a lower band could be described
and labeled in terms of its characteristic Processes, structure, or
medium—organelies, neural circuits, deliberate acts, unit tasks—
but within the intendedly rational level, the internal structures are
composed to fit the task structure, and so the organization at each
level is that of the task. Thus, there is a task hierarchy, rather than a
hierarchy reflective of inner structure. This hierarchy can continue
upward indefinitely if tasks of indefinite complexity are undertaken.

We have now entered the realm of reason, as it is classically
called. Behavior is not law-abiding in the usual sense. A law, in
almost every sense we use the word, implies some form of context
independence. A law is a guarantee that some rule can be applied
taking into account only the finite amount of context that is stated
explicitly with the law, against a background usually expressed as
“performable by one skilled in the art.”’ It is the glory of natural
science that it finds such context-limited laws to be operational ia
nature. There seems to be no a priori reason that nature should
have its behavior governed by sufficiently context-free rules to be
discoverable by humans and communicable between them. At the
rational level, on the other hand, the agent does whatever it can—
whatever its knowledge permits—to attain its goal. The agent may
go outside any prespecified context, as perceived by an external
observer.’ The longer the agent has, the more chance it has of

16. Especially since any physically realizable observer is ilself only a device capable
of taking into account a limited amouat of context.

