                     Figure 4: Examples of augmented data. We generally allow rotations and transposition
                     of the examples,as well as permutations of color and shufÒing of the order of examples.
                     of each problem instance. The idea here is to give the model time to in-
                     ternally process the input before having to generate the first token of the
                     output. However, we could not clearly determine if this improved model
                     performance.
                     3.3  Augmentation
                     Data augmentation has been a common approach in previous ARC-AGI
                     competitions. However, our method extends beyond traditional dataset aug-
                     mentation, applying transformations throughout our pipeline, both during
                     training and during inference. To formalize our approach, we first need to
                     define the structure of ARC-AGI puzzles.
                     A task, denoted as C = (X ,Y ,X ,Y ,...,Xc,Yc), consists input grids X
                                            1  1  2  2                             i
                     paired with their corresponding output grids Yi. The final pair, Xc and Y c,
                     represent the task grid input Xc and the correct solution Y c. An augmen-
                     tation is a function T that maps C to another task T(C) while preserving
                     the task’s essential structure. While formally defining “essential structure”
                     is difÏcult as it requires deep understanding of the task patterns, we can still
                     identify symmetries of interest.
                     Our transformations fall into three categories, as illustrated by an example
                     in Figure 4:
                        • D symmetry operations (rotations and reflections) applied consis-
                           8
                          tently across all grids X ,Y
                                              i i
                        • Color permutations applied uniformly throughout the task, with spe-
                          cial consideration for the background color, given by the token 0 .
                                                    8
