                           Context →    Title:  The Blitz
                                        Background: From the German point of view, March 1941 saw an improvement.
                                        The Luftwaffe flew 4,000 sorties that month, including 12 major and
                                        three heavy attacks.  The electronic war intensified but the Luftwaffe
                                        flew major inland missions only on moonlit nights.  Ports were easier to
                                        find and made better targets.  To confuse the British, radio silence was
                                        observed until the bombs fell.  X- and Y-Ger¨at beams were placed over
                                        false targets and switched only at the last minute.  Rapid frequency
                                        changes were introduced for X-Ger¨at, whose wider band of frequencies and
                                        greater tactical flexibility ensured it remained effective at a time when
                                        British selective jamming was degrading the effectiveness of Y-Ger¨at.
                                        Q: How many sorties were flown in March 1941?
                                        A: 4,000
                                        Q: When did the Luftwaffe fly inland missions?
                                        A:
                 Target Completion →    only on moonlit nights
                                          Figure G.28: Formatted dataset example for SQuADv2
                           Context →    Normal force -- In a simple case such as an object resting upon a table,
                                        the normal force on the object is equal but in opposite direction to the
                                        gravitational force applied on the object (or the weight of the object),
                                        that is, N = m g (\displaystyle N=mg), where m is mass, and g is the
                                        gravitational field strength (about 9.81 m/s on Earth).  The normal force
                                        here represents the force applied by the table against the object that
                                        prevents it from sinking through the table and requires that the table is
                                        sturdy enough to deliver this normal force without breaking.  However, it
                                        is easy to assume that the normal force and weight are action-reaction
                                        force pairs (a common mistake). In this case, the normal force and
                                        weight need to be equal in magnitude to explain why there is no upward
                                        acceleration of the object.  For example, a ball that bounces upwards
                                        accelerates upwards because the normal force acting on the ball is larger
                                        in magnitude than the weight of the ball.
                                        question:  is the normal force equal to the force of gravity?
                                        answer:
                 Target Completion →    yes
                                            Figure G.29: Formatted dataset example for BoolQ
                           Context →    The trend toward lower rents may seem surprising given that some
                                        communities in New York are bemoaning the loss of favorite local
                                        businesses to high rents.  But, despite the recent softening, for many
                                        of these retailers there’s still been too big a jump from the rental rates
                                        of the late 1970s, when their leases were signed.  Certainly, the recent
                                        drop in prices doesn’t mean Manhattan comes cheap.
                                        question:  Manhattan comes cheap.  true, false, or neither?
                                        answer:
                 Target Completion →    false
                                             Figure G.30: Formatted dataset example for CB
                                                                 58
