               Justification: No theorems/proofs.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include theoretical results.
                • All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and cross-
                 referenced.
                • All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems.
                • The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if
                 they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short
                 proof sketch to provide intuition.
                • Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented
                 byformal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material.
                • Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced.
              4. Experimental Result Reproducibility
               Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main ex-
               perimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions
               of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: Please see Section 3, Section A.8.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • If the paper includes experiments, a No answer to this question will not be perceived
                 well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of
                 whether the code and data are provided or not.
                • If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken
                 to make their results reproducible or verifiable.
                • Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways.
                 For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully
                 might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may
                 be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same
                 dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often
                 one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed
                 instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case
                 of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are
                 appropriate to the research performed.
                • While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submis-
                 sions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the
                 nature of the contribution. For example
                 (a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how
                   to reproduce that algorithm.
                 (b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe
                   the architecture clearly and fully.
                 (c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should
                   either be a way to access this model for reproducing the results or a way to reproduce
                   the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct
                   the dataset).
                 (d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case
                   authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility.
                   In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in
                   someway(e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers
                   to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results.
              5. Openaccess to data and code
               Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instruc-
               tions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
               material?
                               26
