                • The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).
                • It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
                 of the mean.
                • It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
                 preferablyreporta2-sigmaerrorbarthanstatethattheyhavea96%CI,ifthehypothesis
                 of Normality of errors is not verified.
                • For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
                 figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
                 error rates).
                • If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
                 they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
              8. Experiments Compute Resources
               Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the com-
               puter resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
               the experiments?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: Please see Section A.8.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
                • The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster,
                 or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
                • The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual
                 experimental runs as well as estimate the total compute.
                • The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute
                 than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that
                 didn’t make it into the paper).
              9. Code Of Ethics
               Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
               NeurIPS Code of Ethics https://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines?
               Answer: [Yes]
               Justification: We have read and follow the code of ethics.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
                • If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a
                 deviation from the Code of Ethics.
                • The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consid-
                 eration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction).
             10. Broader Impacts
               Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative
               societal impacts of the work performed?
               Answer: [NA]
               Justification: The societal impact of improving transformer capability on simple arithmetic
               is limited to the possible effects of slightly improving the community’s understanding. These
               particular tasks are far away form the frontiers of potential harm/benefit to society.
               Guidelines:
                • The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed.
                • If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal
                 impact or why the paper does not address societal impact.
                • Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses
                 (e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations
                 (e.g., deploymentoftechnologiesthatcouldmakedecisionsthatunfairlyimpactspecific
                 groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations.
                               28
