                           Context →    Passage:  Saint Jean de Br´ebeuf was a French Jesuit missionary who
                                        travelled to New France in 1625.  There he worked primarily with the Huron
                                        for the rest of his life, except for a few years in France from 1629 to
                                        1633.  He learned their language and culture, writing extensively about
                                        each to aid other missionaries. In 1649, Br´ebeuf and another missionary
                                        were captured when an Iroquois raid took over a Huron village . Together
                                        with Huron captives, the missionaries were ritually tortured and killed
                                        on March 16, 1649.  Br´ebeuf was beatified in 1925 and among eight Jesuit
                                        missionaries canonized as saints in the Roman Catholic Church in 1930.
                                        Question:  How many years did Saint Jean de Br´ebeuf stay in New France
                                        before he went back to France for a few years?
                                        Answer:
                 Target Completion →    4
                                            Figure G.20: Formatted dataset example for DROP
                           Context →    Fill in blank:
                                        She held the torch in front of her.
                                        She caught her breath.
                                        "Chris?  There’s a step."
                                        "What?"
                                        "A step.  Cut in the rock.  About fifty feet ahead." She moved faster.
                                        They both moved faster.  "In fact," she said, raising the torch higher,
                                        "there’s more than a    . ->
                 Target Completion →    step
                                         Figure G.21: Formatted dataset example for LAMBADA
                           Context →    Please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word:
                                        skicts =
                 Target Completion →    sticks
                                       Figure G.22: Formatted dataset example for Anagrams 1 (A1)
                           Context →    Please unscramble the letters into a word, and write that word:
                                        volwskagen =
                 Target Completion →    volkswagen
                                         Figure G.23: Formatted dataset example for Anagrams 2
                           Context →    Q: Who played tess on touched by an angel?
                                        A:
                 Target Completion →    Delloreese Patricia Early (July 6, 1931 { November 19, 2017), known
                                        professionally as Della Reese
                                       Figure G.24: Formatted dataset example for Natural Questions
                                                                 56
