                      A  DIGRESSION:  THERMODYNAMICS  461
       some complexity assumptions (the existence of one-way functions) that are widely 
       believed though not yet proven.
          Let us explain what a pseudo-random number generator (in the Blum-Micali- 
       Yao sense) is.  Here we use rather vague terms and oversimplify the matter, but there 
       is rigorous mathematics behind it.  Imagine a simple and fast algorithmic procedure 
       that gets a seed, a binary string of moderate size, say, 1000 bits, and produces a very 
       long sequence of bits out of it, say, of length 1010.  By necessity the output string 
       has small complexity compared to its length (complexity is bounded by the seed size 
       plus the length of the processing program,  which we assume to be rather short). 
       However,  it  may  happen  that  the  output  sequences  will  be  “indistinguishable” 
       from truly random sequences of length  1010,  and in this case the transformation 
       procedure is called a pseudo-random number generator.
          It  sounds like a contradiction:  as we have said,  output  sequences have small 
       Kolmogorov complexity,  and  this  property  distinguishes  them  from  most  of the 
       sequences of length 1010.  So how they can be indistinguishable?  The explanation is 
       that the difference becomes obvious only when we know the seed used for producing 
       the sequence, but there is no way to find out what seed is by looking at the sequence 
       itself.  The formal statement is quite technical, but its idea is simple:  Consider any 
       simple test that looks at a 1010-bit string and says yes or no (by whatever reason; 
       any simple and fast program could be a test).  Then consider two ratios:  (1) the 
       fraction of bit strings of length 1010 that pass the test (among all bit strings of this 
       length)  and (2)  the fraction of seeds that lead to a 1010-bit string that passes the 
       test (among all seeds).  The pseudo-random number generator property guarantees 
       that these two numbers are very close.
          This implies that if some test rejects most of the pseudo-random strings (pro­
       duced by the generator), then it would also reject most of the strings of the same 
       length, so there is no way to find out whether somebody has given us random or 
       pseudo-random strings.
          In  a  more  vague  language,  this  example shows  us  that  randomness  may  be 
       in  the  eye  of the  beholder,  i.e.,  the  randomness  of an  observed  sequence  could 
       be the consequence of our limited computational abilities which prevent  us from 
       discovering non-randomness.  (However,  if somebody shows us the seed,  our eyes 
       are immediately opened, and we see that the sequence has very small complexity.)
          So we should not exclude the possibility that the world is governed by simple 
       dynamical laws and its initial state can be also described by several thousands of 
       bits.  In this case “true” randomness does not exist in the world, and every sequence 
       of 106 coin tossings that happened or will happen in the foreseeable future produces 
       a string that has Kolmogorov complexity much smaller than its length.  However, 
       a computationally limited observer (like ourselves) would never discover this fact.
                     A digression:  Thermodynamics
          The connection  between  statistical  and  dynamical  laws  was  discussed  a  lot 
       in the context of thermodynamics while discussing the second law.  However, one 
       should be very careful with exact definition and statements.  For example, it is often 
       said that the second law of thermodynamics cannot be derived from dynamical laws 
       because they are time-reversible while the second law is not.  On the other hand, 
       it  is  often said that the second law has many equivalent formulations,  and one of 
       them claims that the perpetual motion machine of the second kind is impossible,
