                       FACE ONE:  FREQUENCY STABILITY AND STOCHASTICNESS          469
           subclass (in fact, a proper subclass) of the class of Church stochastic sequences.  In 
           the sequel we denote the class of stochastic sequences by S.
               Soon  it  turned  out  that  the  class  S  was  also  too  broad.  For  example,  one 
           may construct a Kolmogorov stochastic sequence where each prefix has more zeros 
           than ones.7  It contradicts our intuition (supported by some theorems of probability 
           theory:  a one-dimensional random walk returns to the starting point with proba­
           bility 1).  So even the strictest version of the von Mises approach currently known 
           does not provide an intuitively satisfactory notion of randomness,  though it is an 
           interesting object to study that reflects some aspects of randomness.
               To be precise,  let us reproduce the definitions suggested by Church and Kol­
           mogorov.  In both cases we define some class of admissible selection rules used to 
           form subsequences of a given sequence.
               Imagine that the terms of the sequence (zeros and ones) are written on paper 
           cards that are put on the table, face down, so we do not see what is written on the 
           cards.  Our goal is to select some of the cards and form another sequence made of the 
           bits on the selected cards.  This subsequence (in the case of Kolmogorov’s definition 
           this term is used in a broad sense, the order of terms in the subsequence may differ 
           from their order in the original sequence) is called an admissible subsequence.  An 
           admissible selection rule is  an algorithm that  decides on each step  (1)  which bit 
           should be revealed (corresponding card turned over) next and (2) whether this bit 
           should be included in the subsequence or not.  The algorithm has access to the bits 
           already revealed (those bits form its input).  It may well happen that the algorithm 
           selects only finitely many bits (it may hang or reveal more and more bits without 
           selecting any of them), in this case we say that no admissible subsequence is formed. 
           (Anyway, the frequency stability property makes sense only for infinite sequences.) 
           If for every admissible selection rule we get a sequence that satisfies the frequency 
           stability property, the original sequence is called stochastic.
               To give a more precise description, let us recall some terminology.  A function is 
           called computable if there is an algorithm that computes this function.  This means, 
           for some function /, that (1) the algorithm terminates on every input x such that 
           f(x)  is defined,  and produces f(x),  and  (2)  the algorithm does not terminate on 
           all inputs where /  is undefined.
               Assume that  a sequence a\,a2,...  is given,  so the nth card contains bit  an. 
           A Church admissible selection rule is an arbitrary computable function G defined 
           on all binary strings and has  True and False as values.  The cards are turned over 
           sequentially (first the card that carries a\, then a2, etc.);  before the next card is 
           turned over, the selection rule decides whether that card is selected or not.  This 
           is  done in the following way.  Assume that n cards,  carrying bits ai,... ,an, have 
           been turned over.  If G(ai,..., an) equals  True, then the next card, carrying an+1, 
           is included in the subsequence; otherwise, it is not.  At the first step we include a\ 
           in the subsequence depending on the value of G(A).  In other words, the selected 
           subsequence consists of terms
                                      ®n( 1)) ®n(2)) ®n(3)) • • • )
           where  n(l),n(2),n(3),...  are  all  numbers  n  such  that  G{a\,..., an-i)  =  True, 
           assuming that there are infinitely many numbers with this property.  Otherwise, we 
           get a finite sequence, and it is not considered as admissible subsequence.
              7 See Theorem 203(b), p. 307.
