             484               2.  FOUR ALGORITHMIC FACES OF  RANDOMNESS
             declared to be stochastic with respect to 0.  But if b is infinite, then some require­
            ment should be fulfilled to make a stochastic with respect to 0.  Let us describe 
            that requirement.
                 By rj we denote the conditional probability
                              ß n(kj)      n{ 1),     n(2),         n(kj - 1) \
                                         a(n(l)), a(n(2)), ..., a(n(kj - 1 ))J'
            Consider the difference
                       s  _ r 1+r2H------b rj    a(n(ki)) + a(n(k2)) H------b a(n(kj))
                      Oj —          :                              :                 •
                                    3                             J
            Here ôj is defined only if all rq,..., rj  are defined.
                 We say that b satisfies the strong law of large numbers if all ôj are defined and 
            Sj  —> 0 as j —> oo.  A sequence a is then called stochastic with respect to 0 if the 
            generalized subsequence obtained from a according to 0 satisfies the strong law of 
            large numbers.
                Finally,  a sequence a is called  Kolmogorov stochastic with respect to a given 
            probability distribution if a is stochastic with respect to every Kolmogorov-admis­
            sible selection rule that selects an infinite generalized subsequence from a.
                This definition by itself does not use the computability of the measure.  How­
            ever,  to  compare it  with other  randomness notions,  we need  to assume that  the 
            measure (the probability distribution in question) is computable.
                 Chaoticness.  A sequence a = (a\, a2, аз,...) is chaotic with respect to a com­
            putable measure ß if there exists a constant c such that
                               KM(ai,a2, • ■ •, an) > -  logß(ß
            for all n (here log stands, as usual, for the binary logarithm).
                For  arbitrary  computable measures,  the motivation for  this definition  is  the 
            same as it was for the uniform measure.  One can prove that for every computable 
            measure ß there exists some c such that
                                         KM(x) < -  log ß(üx) + c
            for all strings X.  Informally speaking, for every computable measure ß we can find 
            some monotone description language that fits that measure in the following sense: 
            it  provides short  descriptions  for strings  x  that  have big values of ß(ftx)  (as the 
            inequality above specifies).  The sequence is chaotic if those descriptions cannot be 
            significantly shortened (more than by a constant).
                Typicalness.  The definition of typicalness can be naturally extended to arbi­
            trary measures:  we used the volume (=the uniform measure) of balls when defining 
            small sets, and now we should use their measure instead.
                As before, we start by defining effectively small sets.  A set Q C 0, is effectively 
            small with respect to measure ß if there exists an algorithm A with the following 
            property.  Given  any positive integer m and input,  the  algorithm A produces as 
            output  an algorithm for the computing a sequence  (x(l), x(2),... ,x(n),...)  such
