              136                            5.  M ONOTONE  COMPLEXITY
              Here a and ß are some parameters.  The e-neighborhood of the space allocated for 
              the root is called gray space:  these e-intervals can never be allocated for any other 
              vertex.  More precisely, we use the following parameters:
                      •  the tree for which the game is played;
                      •  e that is used to measure ^-neighborhoods;
                      •  maximal allowed request a for the root;
                      •  the required size ß for the gray area (i.e., the ^-neighborhood of the space 
                        allocated for the root).
              We are interested in the values of these parameters such that there exists a winning 
              strategy  for  Client,  i.e.,  she  can  achieve  that  ^-neighborhood  of the  space  that 
              Server allocates to the root has size at least ß while the root request is at most a.
                  Example  1.  Let e be an arbitrary negative power of 2,  let  ß  —  e,  and let 
              a be positive and much smaller than ß.  Then the (trivial) strategy  “just request 
              a for the root”  works for every tree:  whatever Server allocates for the root,  this 
              (non-empty) set has an ^-neighborhood of size at least e.
                  So it is easy to get arbitrarily high amplification (high ß/a) for small ß.  The 
              difficult case is when ß    e, and in this case we construct the strategy recursively by 
              combining strategies for different trees and using inside the strategy some recursive 
              calls of other strategies for the subtrees.  In this inductive (recursive) construction it 
              is convenient to add amplification as a parameter, introducing one more parameter 
              к and requiring that the ratio (size of the gray area)/ (request) is at least k.  For к = 
              ß/a, this requirement is obviously true, but we will use strategies that guarantee 
              given amplification k, while the request size (and the gray area size) may vary in 
              some limited way.
                  Example 2.  Let T be the tree where the root has m sons, and each of them 
              has two sons  (=grandsons of the root).  Let e be some  (negative) power of 2,  let 
              a — ß = me for some integer m, and let к = 3/2.  (We see that к is important here: 
             we do not specify the exact size of the request and the exact size of the gray area, 
              but the second one should be к times greater than the first one, and me should be 
              in between.)
                  Here  is  the  winning  strategy  for  these  values.  To  make  trouble  for  Server, 
              Client  selects  for  each  son  of the  root  one  of its  sons,  and  requests  e/2  for  all 
             these grandsons of the root.  (We specify here the requests for leaves only; for other 
             vertices the requests are computed as the sum of requests for the descendants.)  Now 
              Server should decide which grandsons should be paired with their cousins (getting 
             e/2 inside one interval)  and who should be  “a single occupant of a double room” 
              (the neighbor interval of size e/2 is kept free).  Looking at Server’s decision, Client 
             increases the requests trying to make life harder for Server:  for grandsons who do 
             not have the reserve (have neighbors), Client requests e/2 for their brothers, thus 
             making the father’s request e.  Then Server needs to allocate a fresh interval of size 
             e for the father (since the old one cannot be used, part of it is already allocated for 
             his niece; the reserves in other places are also too small).  Therefore, for each of m 
             sons of the root one of two things happen:  either e was grayed for e/2-request, or 
              (3/2)e was allocated for e-request.  In both cases the amplification is at least 3/2.2
                  2In fact,  it  is  easy  to  achieve  amplification  3/2  by  asking  for  each  son  of the  root  slightly 
             more than e/2:  the interval sizes are powers of 2, and Server is forced to allocate an interval of size
