            474               2.  FOUR ALGORITHMIC  FACES OF  RANDOMNESS
            suitable program.  For example, for every formal theory (like set theory, or formal 
            arithmetic) the set of all theorems (provable statements) is enumerable.  The intro­
            duction of a formal computational model or of a general notion of a formal theory 
            falls beyond our scope.  However we will describe the notion of an enumerable set 
            in more detail.
                Let us start with countable sets.  This term is used in two different ways.  One 
            more narrow definition says that countable sets are those sets for which there exists 
            a one-to-one correspondence with the set N of all natural numbers.  The other more 
            liberal definition says that countable sets are those sets for which there exists a one- 
            to-one correspondence with some initial segment of N.  Here by initial segment of N 
            we mean a subset M of N that is downward-closed, i.e., every natural number that 
            is smaller than some element of M also belongs to M.  For example, the entire N 
            and the empty set 0 are both initial segments of N, and all finite sets are countable 
            in this more liberal interpretation.  We use this interpretation; then one can say that 
            a set is countable if it is either empty or can be represented as a set of terms of an 
            infinite sequence.  For example, the finite set {a, 6, c} is the set of terms of infinite 
            sequence a, 6, c, c, c, c,....  If we  additionally require that  this  infinite sequence is 
            computable, we get the definition of an enumerable set.  It remains to explain what 
            a computable sequence is.
                A sequence w\, w2,..., wn,... is called computable if there exists an algorithm 
            that for any given n computes its nth term wn.  One may say that the notion of a 
            computable sequence is an effective (algorithmic) version of the notion of sequence, 
            and the notion of an enumerable set  is  an  effective  (algorithmic)  version  of the 
            notion of a countable set.13  Let us repeat the definition:  a set is enumerable if it 
            is  empty or it is a set of terms of some computable sequence.
                All the description languages we consider are subsets of E x E and therefore are 
            all countable.  Kolmogorov suggested considering enumerable description languages 
            only.  The final step in the definition of chaoticness was made by Leonid Levin, a 
            student of Kolmogorov; in 1973 he published a paper in which a class of monotone 
            description languages was introduced, and the corresponding notion of chaoticness 
            was studied.14  Let us provide the corresponding definitions.
                We say that strings и and v are  compatible  and write и  ~ v  if one of these 
            strings is a prefix of the other one.
                A description language E is called monotone if E is enumerable and the fol­
            lowing requirement is satisfied:
                         {(xi,yi) e E к {x2,y2) € E к (xi « x2)) =>• (yi « y2).
            It can be shown that there exists a monotone description language that is optimal 
            for the family of monotone description languages.  So the notion of entropy for this 
            family is well defined;  the corresponding entropy function is called the  monotone 
            entropy15 and is denoted by KM.
                13To stress the difference between algorithmic and non-algorithmic notions, enumerable sets 
            are usually called recursively  enumerable or  computably  enumerable  (computable functions were 
            traditionally called  “recursive functions”  for historical reasons).  The word  “enumerable”  is often 
            used as a synonym for  “countable”.
                14A similar notion was introduced by Claus-Peter Schnorr in his publication of 1972; see the 
            footnote on p. 482.
                15In the main part of the book this function is called monotone  complexity, it is defined in 
            Section 6.2.
