                                      14.4.  HYPOTHESES  OF  RESTRICTED  TYPE                          441
              exact statement is for some positive e and for all sufficiently large n there exists a 
              string X of length n such that the distance between            and Px exceeds en.)
                   (Hint:  Fix some a in  (0,1/2)  and let  V be the cardinality of the Hamming 
              ball of radius an.  Find a set E of cardinality N — 2n/V such that every Hamming 
              ball of radius an contains at most n points from E.  (This property is related to 
              list  decoding  in  coding  theory.  The  existence  of such  a set  can  be  proved  by  a 
              probabilistic argument:  N randomly chosen n-bit strings have this property with 
              positive probability.  Indeed,  the probability of a random point  being in E is an 
              inverse of the number of points, so the distribution is close to Poisson distribution 
              with parameter 1, and tails decrease much faster than 2~n needed.)  Since E can be 
              found by an exhaustive search, we can assume that its complexity is О (logn) and 
              ignore it (and other O(logn)-terms) in the sequel.  Now let x be a random element 
              in E, i.e., a string x G E of complexity about log фЕ.  The complexity of a ball A of 
              radius an that contains x is at least C(x), since knowing such a ball and an ordinal 
              number of x in A D E, we can find x.  Therefore x does not have (log фЕ, log V)- 
              descriptions in A.  On the other hand, x does have a (0, log #  .^-description if we do 
              not require it to be in A ; the set E is such a description.  The point (log фЕ, log V) 
              is above the line C(A) + logфА — logфЕ, so P£ is significantly smaller than Px.)
                   359 Describe the set P^ for x constructed in the preceding problem.
                  (Hint:  The border of the set P     consists of a vertical segment C(A) = n—log V, 
              where log фА ^ log V, and the segment of slope —1 defined by C(A) + log фА — n, 
             where log V ^ log#A)
                  Let A be a family that has properties (l)-(3).  We now prove a (weaker) version 
             of Theorem 253 where the precision is only 0(\Jn logn) instead of О (logn).  Note 
             that with this precision the term 0(m) in Theorem 253 (which is proportional to 
             the complexity of the boundary curve) is not needed.  Indeed, if we draw a curve on 
             a cell paper with cell size 0 (yjn) or larger, the curve goes through 0 (^/n) cells and 
             can be described by O(yjn) bits, so we may assume without loss of generality that 
             the complexity of the curve (the sequence U in the statement below) is 0 (\/n).
                  Theorem  257.  Let к  ^  n  be  two  integers,  and  let to  >  ti  >  • • •  >  tk  be  a 
              strictly  decreasing sequence  of integers  such  that to  ^  n  and t-k  —  0.  Then there 
              exists  a string x  of complexity к + 0 (\/nlogn)  and length n + O(logn) for which 
              the  distance  between the set P a n d  the set T = {(г, j)  \  (i ^ k)     (j  ^ ti)}  is  at 
              most 0 (\Jnlogn).
                  Proof.  The proof is similar to the proof of Theorem 253.  Let us first recall 
             that  proof.  We consider the string x that is the lexicographically first string  (of 
             suitable length n’) that is not covered by any bad set, i.e., by any set of complexity 
             at  most i and size at most  2J,  where the pair  (г, j)  is at the boundary of the set 
             T.  The length n7 is chosen in such a way that the total number of strings in all 
             bad sets is strictly less than 2n .  On the other hand, we need good sets that cover 
             x.  For every boundary point (i,j) we construct a set A,j that contains x and has 
             complexity close to i and size 2À  The set A.j  is constructed in several attempts. 
             Initially Aij  is the set  of lexicographically first  2J  strings of length n'.  Then we 
             enumerate bad sets and delete all their elements from A,j-  At some step, A,j may 
             become empty.  We then fill it with 2J  lexicographically first strings that are not 
             in the bad sets (at the moment).  By construction the final A j  contains the first 
             x that is not in a bad set  (since it is the case all the time).  And the set A,j  can
