                                                                                       CHAPTER 9
                           Frequency and game approaches to randomness
                                                              9.1.  The original idea of von Mises
                              Nowadays the axiomatic approach to probability (that makes it a special part 
                      of measure theory)  is standard,  and it  is difficult  to  forget  all we know now and 
                      return to the situation in the beginning of the twentieth century when Richard von 
                      Mises suggested basing probability theory on the notion of a random sequence (he 
                      used the word Kollektiv).  Still let us try to describe von Mises’ ideas.
                              Some natural phenomena are easy to predict (after we have discovered the laws 
                      of nature they obey).  For example, the laws of classical mechanics can be used to 
                      predict the positions of planets in the sky with very high precision.  But there exists 
                      another class of phenomena:  Even as we try very hard to predict the outcome of 
                      coin tossing,  usually we get about  50% of predictions correct.  Those phenomena 
                      are the subject of probability theory.
                              So the basic notion of probability theory (according to von Mises) is the notion 
                      of a Kollektiv—a sequence oj of outcomes (we will assume there are two possible 
                      outcomes 0 and 1) that is hard to predict.  Since this is a basic notion, we do not try 
                      to give a definition that would reduce it to other mathematical notions; instead we 
                                            frequency stability axiom that captures the main property of Kollektivs:
                      formulate a 
                                        There exists a limit
                                                                               ,.       Шо +           + • • • + шп-1
                                                                     p =  Inn  -------------------------- .
                                                                             n—5-00                     п
                                        Moreover, p remains the limit if we consider not the entire se­
                                        quence oj but some of its subsequence selected according to some 
                                        rule; for example, the subsequence oj2n, or the subsequence of ojn 
                                       with composite n,  or the terms that follow ones  (i.e.,  шп  such 
                                       that ojn- 1 = 1).
                      This p is called the probability of 1 in a given Kollektiv.
                              Why do the Kollektivs exists?  We know that gambling facilities are commer­
                      cially successful,  and this would be impossible if some selection rule existed that 
                      allowed the gamblers to select a subsequence of games with different frequencies of 
                      outcomes.
                              This  is  a  short  (but  faithful,  we  hope)  summary  of what  von  Mises  wrote; 
                      see, e.g., his book  Wahrscheinlichkeit,  Statistik und  Wahrheit  [127].  But his book 
                      was written not  in  the times  of Euclid  or  Spinoza,  but  in  the  beginning  of the 
                      twentieth century, when people tend to ask nasty questions about exact definitions 
                      and for detailed proofs.  Indeed,  one can declare that the existence of sequences 
                      with some properties is an axiom that is confirmed experimentally (though to speak 
                      about experimental confirmation of the statement that deals with limits of infinite
                                                                                                261
