                       14.3.  TWO-PART DESCRIPTIONS   435
          Now, instead of this linear classification, we have a two-dimensional family Sij 
       where Sij is the union of all finite sets A with C(A) ^ i and log фА ^ j (these sets 
       were called the (î*j)-descriptions of their elements).  We get a two-dimensional table 
       formed by Sij; note that it is monotone along both coordinates, i.e., Sij increases 
       when i or j increases.  Theorem 252 says that this table is (almost) increasing along 
       the diagonal:       Sij C Si+k^j — k'
       (As usual, we ignore logarithmic corrections:  one should write
                         Sij C *S'i+A:+0(logk),j — к
       instead.)
          To understand better the meaning of this two-dimensional stratification, let us 
       look at the equivalent definitions of Sij. As usual, we ignore the logarithmic terms 
       and consider as identical two families S and S' if Sij C S'i+0^ogl^ j+o(\ogi) where 
       I = i + j.
          By an  enumerated list  in the following theorem we mean  an algorithm  that 
       (from time to  time)  emits  binary strings  (perhaps,  with repetitions);  the length 
       of such a list  is defined  as the number of strings emitted  (each string is counted 
       as many times as it was emitted).  Condition (c) assumes that the algorithm can 
       produce strings in groups of arbitrary size (different groups produced by the same 
       algorithm may have different sizes).
          Theorem  254.  The following properties of a string x  are  equivalent in this 
       sense (each of them implies the others with logarithmic change in the parameters):
          (a)  x  belongs to Sij  (has an (i * j)-description);
          (b)  there exists a simple (—of complexity 0(log(i + j))) enumerated list of size 
       at most 2*+J  where x  appears  (for the first time)  at least 2J  steps before the end of 
       the list;
          (c)  there exists a simple  (=of complexity 0(log(i + j))) enumerated list of size 
       at most 2*+J  that includes x where strings are produced in at most 2l groups;
          (d)  in every simple (—of complexity 0(log(i+j))) enumerated list that includes 
       all the strings of complexity at most i + j,  the string x appears (for the first time) 
       at least 2J  steps before the end of the list.
          P r o o f.  To  show that  (a)  implies  (c),  assume that  (a)  is true.  Enumerate all 
       sets of complexity at most i and of size at most  2J .  When a new set appears,  it 
       forms a new group added to the list.  In this way we get at most 2l groups of size at 
       most 2J , so the total length of the enumerated list is at most 2*+J .  The complexity 
       of the enumeration algorithm is logarithmic since only i and j should be specified.
          To get  (b)  from  (a),  we should  modify the construction slightly and  add  2J 
       arbitrary elements after each portion.  The total number of elements increases then 
       by 2l+J  and is still acceptable.
          On the other hand, (b) easily implies (a):  we need to split the list in groups of 
       size 2J .  Then we get at most 2г groups, and only 2J  last elements are left outside 
       the groups.  Therefore, x is covered by some group.  Each group is determined by its 
       ordinal number and therefore has complexity i  (plus logarithmic term that covers 
       the complexity of the list).
          To get  (a)  from  (c),  we split each group into pieces of size 2J  (except for one 
       last piece that can be smaller).  The number of full pieces is at most 2г, since the 
       length of the list is at most 2*+J .  The same is true for the number of non-full pieces.
