              334            10.  INEQUALITIES  FOR ENTROPY,  COMPLEXITY AND SIZE
                  Each of the subsets constructed in this way is determined by the complexity 
              vector of X, so we get only polynomially many sets.  It remains to show that each 
              of these sets is c-uniform for some polynomially (in N) large value of c.
                  This  can  be  done  as  before:  The  number  of elements  in  such  a  set  is  not 
              significantly smaller than 2c(Xl'—'Xn\A\ and the log-sizes of the sections are upper 
              bounded by conditional complexities, so we can use the same argument.                     □
                  It  is  interesting to find a purely combinatorial proof of this lemma that does 
              not use Kolmogorov complexity (recall that the statement does not mention Kol­
              mogorov complexity). This is not straightforward even for the two-dimensional case 
              (when A is a set of pairs).  Assume that some finite set A C N2 is given.  We said 
              that A is almost uniform if
                                m(l, 2) « m(l)m(211),  m(l, 2) « m(2)m(l 12).
              In  other  words  the  average  size  of  a  (non-empty)  vertical  section,  i.e., 
              m(l, 2)/m(l),  should  be  not  much  less  than  the  maximal  size  m(2|l),  and  the 
              same should be true for the horizontal sections.
                  How can we try to achieve this?  We can split the set A into parts classifying 
              the vertical sections according to their size  (say,  up to factor 2).  Each part then 
              has maximal size not greater than 2 times the average size (or even minimal size). 
              In this way we take care of vertical sections, but if after that we classify horizontal 
              sections in the same way, then we lose the property in the vertical direction.
                  So  what  could we do?  Let us first  note that  it  is  enough to  find  an almost 
              uniform subset of A that is not too small, i.e., it contains at least some polynomial 
              fraction  of the  original  set.  If we  know  how  to  do  this,  we  can  then  apply  the 
             same argument to the rest of A, and so on.  If at each step we separate at least an 
             e-fraction, then after 1/e steps we decrease the cardinality of A approximately by 
             factor e = 2.71828 • • •, so after a polynomial number of steps we have fewer than 1 
             element (i.e., nothing remains).
                  So how can we get a (not very small) part that is uniform in both directions? 
             Let  us  make  a vertical  classification  and  then  take  the  biggest  part.  We  forget 
             about the other parts, split this biggest part in the horizontal direction, and again 
             take the biggest part.  It  remains to  note that  this  biggest  part  is still vertically 
             uniform; see the proof of Theorem 210(c).
                  This argument can be generalized for arbitrary dimension.  Its advantage (com­
             pared to the complexity argument above) is that we get parts where non-uniformity 
             is bounded by a polynomial in the log-size of the part (and not of the entire set).
                  We can improve the statement even more and guarantee that non-uniformity 
             of all the parts is bounded by some constant that depends on the dimension n but 
             not on the size of the set.  It is done in [3] in the following way.
                  For every partition (into disjoint parts)  let us define its weight in such a way 
             that a minimal weight partition (it exists because the number of possible partitions 
             is finite) would satisfy all the requirements.
                  The weight of the partition is the sum of the weights of its elements, and the 
             weight of an element x that belongs to some part X is defined as
                                           ^logmx(H|A) - dlog|X|,
                                           а ,в
