             174                          5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
                 It  remains to prove that these bounds can be arbitrarily close to a.  Assume 
             that this is not the case and all of them are less than some of  < a.  In this case 
             every effectively er-null set would be at the same time a'-null set, which is not true 
             (there exist sets of any effective Hausdorff dimension; see Problem 170, p. 175).    □
                 The effective Hausdorff dimension of a set A C      is now defined as the infimum 
             of a such that  A is an effective er-null set.  This  number belongs to  [0,1]  and is 
             obviously greater than or equal to the  (classical)  Hausdorff dimension.  (Initially 
             the definition of effective Hausdorff dimension was given in a different way, using 
             computable martingales; see [111, 118], where the properties of effective dimension 
             were established.  See also Section 9.10 about computable martingales.)
                 We have mentioned a paradox:  The property of being an effectively null set 
             depends only on the type of its elements (whether they are random or not).  It is 
             not important  “how many”  elements are in the set.  A similar observation can be 
             made for Hausdorff dimension:
                 Theorem  119.  The  effective  Hausdorff dimension  of the  set is  equal  to  the 
             supremum of the effective Hausdorff dimensions of its elements.
                 (By  effective  Hausdorff dimension  of a point  td  €  Q,  we  mean  the  effective 
             Hausdorff dimension of the singleton {td}.)
                 PROOF.  Obviously  the  (effectively  Hausdorff)  dimension  of a set  cannot  be 
             less  than  the  dimension of its element.  It  remains  to  prove the converse:  if the 
             dimensions  of all  singletons  formed  by  elements  of a  set  A  are  less  than  some 
             rational number r,  and r'  > r is another rational number,  then the dimension of 
             A does not exceed r'.  This is a direct corollary of Theorem 117:  all singletons are 
             subsets of the largest effectively r'-null set, so A is a subset of the same set and has 
             dimension at most r'.                                                               □
                 Therefore  we  need  to  understand  only  what  is  the  (effective  Hausdorff)  di­
             mension of a singleton.  It turns out  that it has a simple description in terms of 
             Kolmogorov complexity.
                 Theorem  120.  The effective Hausdorff dimension of a singleton {td},  where 
             td = tdotditd2 • ■ •,  is  equal to
                                           lim inf C^ oUJl ' 
                                            n—>oо         n
                 (The statement uses plain Kolmogorov complexity of the prefixes of td.  How­
             ever, one can use other versions of complexity:  since the difference between different 
             complexity versions is of order O(logn) for strings of length n, and we divide the 
             complexity by n, we get a term 0(logn)/n that does not change the limit.)
                 Proof.  This result can be derived from the statement of Problem 169, but we 
             provide the direct proof.  We have to prove two inequalities:  one for each direction.
                 Assume that the lim inf is less than a rational number r.  We have to verify 
             that the set  {cd} is an effectively r'-null set for each rational r' > r.
                 For each n we consider all n-bit strings that have complexity less than rn.  There 
             are at most  0(2rn) such strings.  The condition about lim inf guarantees that for 
             infinitely  many  n  the n-bit  prefix of td  is  in the corresponding list.  Consider all 
             intervals Çtz  for all z in the list  (for some fixed n), and compute the sum required
