                                        5.6.  LEVIN-SCHNORR THEOREM                           149
                 Moreover,  the  use  of the  monotone  complexity  allows  us  to  strengthen  the 
             Levin-Schnorr theorem as follows:
                 Theorem 93.  If a sequence со is not random with respect to measure p,  then 
             the  difference  — logp(x) — KM(x) for prefixes x  (of со)  is not only unbounded but 
             also tends to infinity.
                 P r o o f.  In the proof of Theorem 90 we constructed a prefix-free decompressor 
             that  provides short  descriptions pi  for strings  X{  and  guarantees  that  the prefix 
             complexity of Xi (with respect to this decompressor) does not exceed — log p(Qx.) — 
             c.  To get the required bound for monotone complexity, we may use (for each i) the 
             extensions of pi as descriptions of the extensions of Xi in such a way that the length 
             of the descriptions corresponds to the measure of described strings, as was done in 
            the proof of Theorem 89 (p.  144).
                 More formally, we can use the inequality KM(xy) ^ K(x) + KM(y\x)  (Prob­
             lem 135) and the relativized version of Theorem 89:  KM(y\x) ^ — logpx(fly) for 
             any computable family of measures that  (computably)  depends on parameter x. 
            Here px is the measure that is concentrated on the set ftx and is defined as follows:
            px(^ly) -- ^(S^xy) / piff^x)'
                 For  the  case  of uniform  measure  (where  — logp(Qx)  =  l(x)),  we  can  use  a 
            simpler argument and say that piz is a description of xiz for any string z.        □
                 This result can be reformulated as follows:  if the difference logp(x) — KM(x) 
            is uniformly bounded for infinitely many prefixes x of some sequence со, then со is 
            random.  For the prefix version, our argument does not work, but we still can prove 
            a weaker statement for computable sequences of lengths.
                  143 Let A be a decidable infinite set of natural numbers (lengths), and let со 
            be some sequence.  If K(x) ^ — logp(Qx) — c for some c and for every prefix x of 
            со with length in A, then со is random.
                 (Hint:  In the proofs of Theorems 90 and 92,  we can split  the intervals  into 
            parts to get the desired length.)
                 We provided some arguments in favor of using monotone complexity in the 
            randomness criterion.  However, a version that uses prefix complexity has its own 
            advantages.  Note that  the notion of an ML-random sequence is invariant  under 
            computable permutations of indices (if the measure is invariant or is changed ac­
            cording to the permutation), but the notion of a prefix (and therefore the criterion 
            of randomness in terms of prefixes)  is not.  As it was noted by A.  Rumyantsev, 
            using К one can get an invariant criterion of ML-randomness.
                 Let F be a finite set of indices  (natural numbers),  and let w be a binary se­
            quence.  By co(F)  we  denote the  restriction of со  onto  F,  i.e.,  the  binary  string 
            formed by bits coi such that г G F (in the same order as inw).
                Let p be a computable measure on Q.  For every finite set F C  N and string 
            Z whose length equals the cardinality of F, we consider the event co(F) = Z.  Its 
            /^-probability is denoted by pf,z-
                 144 Let a; be an ML-random sequence with respect to p.  Prove that
                                      K(F,w(F)) > -  logPfmf) ~ c
            for some c and for all finite F.
