                            12.3.  CONDITIONAL CODES:  MUCHNIK’S THEOREM              369
                                                    В
                                              A
                                              к
                                              A
                       Figure 39.  Encoding and decoding A when В is known
            and  decoder have  access to  В  (the capacity  of the edges shown  as  solid  lines  is 
            unlimited, so we may assume without loss of generality that these edges carry the 
            entire string B).
               This request can be fulfilled if and only if C(A\B)  <  k.  Indeed, the decoder 
           knows В (or some derivative of B) and к additional bits, so it can generate A only 
           if C(A\B) ^ k.  On the other hand, if C(A\B) < к, then the shortest description 
           of A given В has at most к bits and can be sent over a restricted channel, while 
           two  other  unrestricted  channels  transmit  B.  Note  that  the  complexity  of this 
           shortest  description relative to the pair  (A, В)  is  bounded by a logarithm of the 
           total complexity of A and В, since knowing the length of this description we can 
           try all strings of this length in parallel until we find some description.
                317       The last  argument  shows  only  (but  this  is  enough  for  us)  that  some 
           shortest description has logarithmic complexity given A and B.  Prove that each of 
           them has logarithmic complexity since there is only 0 (1) of them.
               (Hint:  It can be proven in the same way as in Problem 40 on p. 40.)
                318  Give the exact statement of the last criterion  (for the network in Fig­
           ure 39) in terms of sequences A& and Вк, and prove this statement.
                          12.3.  Conditional codes:  Muchnik’s theorem
               This section  is  devoted  to  a remarkable  result  of Muchnik  [135].  It  can  be 
           considered as an algorithmic counterpart of a well-known Slepian-Wolf theorem in 
           Shannon information theory.  In the language of the previous section,  Muchnik’s 
           result  says  that  one  does  not  need  to  use  В  while  encoding  A  (Figure  39),  and 
           this edge may be deleted (Figure 40), and the condition when the request can be 
           fulfilled remains the same.
               This condition is C(A\B)  <  k,  and it remains necessary for obvious reasons 
           (the graph is smaller).  It remains sufficient too; here is the exact statement.
                                             A
                                              к
                                             A
                  FIGURE 40.  Sending A when decoder knows В:  Muchnik’s theorem
