                                   9.2.  SET  OF  STRINGS  AS  SELECTION  RULES                   263
             uj  that  has  a frequency stability property with respect to all  Rp.  For every i the 
             sequence Sr^uj) is balanced (or finite).
                  This is easy to prove by a probabilistic argument:
                  Theorem  166.  Let R  be an arbitrary set of strings.  Then the set of all se­
             quences uj £ Cl such that Sr(oj) is an infinite unbalanced sequence is a null set with 
             respect to the uniform measure on Cl.
                  This theorem says that every selection rule discards a null set.  So a countable 
             class of selection rules generates a countable family of null sets,  and the union of 
             these null sets is a null set.  So there are sequences not discarded by any selection 
             rule in the class (moreover, this happens with probability 1).
                  PROOF.  This statement follows from the Strong Law of Large Numbers  (the 
             set of unbalanced sequences is a null set, see Section 3.2) and the following lemma 
             that holds for every selection rule Sr.
                  Lemma.  Let U C Cl be a null set.  Then its preimage S^l(U) is a null set.
                 Informally, each next bit of the sequence Sr(uj) has the same chance to be zero 
             and one (for every fixed combination of previous bits); the difference with uniform 
             distribution is that the next bit may be absent  (if the sequence is finite), but this 
             may only decrease the probability.
                  (Recall  an old  question:  Will  the percentage  of men  change  if families  stop 
             giving birth to children after a son is born to keep their heir unique?  The answer 
             is negative for the same reasons.)
                 Now let us present the formal argument.
                 Consider the set £x of all finite and infinite extensions of x and two of its subsets 
             £xo and Exi.  Let us prove that 5ß-preimages of £xo and £xl have equal measure 
             (in other words, 0 and 1 can appear after x in Sr(uj) with the same probability).
                 Indeed, consider all strings г such that z £ R and Sr selects x from z.  They 
             correspond to  the situation when x  is  already  selected  and  the  next  bit  will  be 
             selected right now.  So every two strings 2 with this property are incompatible, and 
             the sets Clzo  are disjoint.  The union of these sets is the preimage of the set  £xo- 
             Similarly,  the preimage of £xi  is the union of disjoint sets Clzi.  So we have split 
             the preimages into equal parts so the preimages have equal measures.
                 Now it  is  easy  to  prove  by  induction  that  the  measure  of the  S^-preimage 
             of £x  is  bounded  by           Therefore,  the  preimage of a null  set  is  a null  set
             too.  Indeed,  consider the cover of U  by intervals Clx.  with small  total  measure. 
             Consider  the preimages of £Xj. ;  each of these  preimages  is  a countable  union  of 
             intervals.  Combining all these intervals, we get a cover of     1 (£/) with small total 
             measure.  So the Lemma—and Theorem 166 as well—is proven.                             □
                 Note that the standard measure-theoretic argument  (a measure of a set is the 
             infimum of the measures of its covers) now implies that
                                               p(Sfi\U))^p(U)
             for every measurable U C  fi.  If Sr(oj)  is infinite for every uj  (or for almost every 
             uj),  then we can guarantee also that Sr(uj) is uniformly distributed,
                                              ß{S-R1(U)) = ß(U). 
             for every measurable U.  (Consider U and its complement.)
