             376           12.  MULTISOURCE ALGORITHMIC INFORMATION THEORY
                 Note that  this  definition  is  non-symmetric—the  adversary selects  A-vert ices 
             and we have to select 5-vertices.  It is clear from the definition that the property 
             of the  graph  “to  allow  on-line  matching  of size  к”  is  in  PSPACE,  i.e.,  can  be 
             checked in polynomial space.  (It would be interesting to get better upper bounds 
             for complexity or some lower bounds.)
                 Here is the result about on-line matching that somehow explains the combina­
             torial root for Muchnik’s theorem.
                 Theorem 231.  For some constant c and for all a and m such that a ^ m, there 
             exists a bipartite graph with 2 a vertices in the left part and 2mac vertices in the right 
            part and degree at most ac for every left vertex that allows on-line matching of size 
             2m.
                 In  other  words,  one  can  find  a  graph  with  arbitrary  sizes  of left  and  right 
            parts that has small (polynomial) left degree and allows on-line matching of almost 
            maximal size (close to the size of the right part, up to a polynomial factor).
                 Before proving Theorem 231,  let us explain how it implies Theorem 229.  As 
            before,  let  us  replace  A  by  its  shortest  description  of length a.  Let  m  be equal 
            to  C(A\B) + 1.  Theorem 231 then guarantees the existence of a bipartite graph 
            with 2a left vertices and ac2m right vertices and left degree at most ac that allows 
            on-line matching of size 2m.  This is a computable property, so the first graph (in 
            some order)  with this property has small complexity (logarithmic in a).  Fix this 
            graph and some computable strategy that wins the on-line matching game.  For a 
            given 5, let us enumerate a-bit strings that have conditional complexity less than 
            m given B.  There are at most 2m of them, and A is among them.  Applying the 
            matching strategy, we find some right neighbor for each of these strings, including 
            A.  Now let X be the selected neighbor of A.  This is the string we looked for. 
            Indeed, X (as well as all right neighbors of A) has small complexity given A, since 
            A has only few neighbors.  On the other hand, knowing В and X (as well as a and 
            m that determine the graph and the strategy)  we can find A—start the process 
            described above and wait until X is assigned to some vertex.
                 PROOF.  Now let us prove Theorem 231.  It is enough to prove a weaker state­
            ment that allows the matching strategy to skip some elements (whichever it wants), 
            but not more than half of them (at most 2m~1  elements).  Indeed, if such a weak 
            matching strategy exists, we can start a similar process for skipped elements for­
            warding them to another matching strategy (with m decreased by 1 and a corre­
            sponding graph); the elements skipped by this strategy are forwarded to the third 
            one,  etc.  In this way we get  a full matching in the graph whose left part is the 
            same as before, and the right part is a disjoint union of the right parts of all used 
            graphs (for m, m — 1, m — 2,... up to zero, where the matching task is trivial).
                It  remains  to  note  that  this  weaker property  is  guaranteed  if the graph has 
            the  expansion property used  in the proof of Muchnik’s  theorem.  The matching 
            algorithm is straightforward:  If a vertex has neighbors not used before, select one 
            of them; if not, skip the vertex.  Let us show that this strategy serves at least half 
            of the vertices (at least 2m~l ones).  If it serves less, then at the right part we have 
            used less than 2m~1  vertices.  On the other hand,  for each skipped vertex all its 
            neighbors are used (this was the reason to skip it).  So we get more than 2m~1  left 
            vertices  (skipped ones)  whose neighbors are all in the set of used right vertices of 
            size less than 2m~1.  This is impossible due to the expansion property.            □
