                                                              CHAPTER 8
                                                    Some applications
                                          8.1.  There are infinitely many primes
                      Let us start with a toy example and prove that there are infinitely many primes.
                      Assume that there are only m different prime numbers pi,...,pm,■  Then every 
                positive integer x has a prime decomposition of the form
                                                           X =PilP22 •••Pm*
                and  can  be  described  by  the  list  of exponents  k i,...,k m.  Each  of ki  does  not 
                exceed logx, since the base is at least 2, and has complexity at most O(loglogx) 
                (its binary representation has O(loglogx) bits).  Since m is fixed, i.e., m is the same 
                for different x’s,  the complexity of the tuple  (ki,k2,..., km)  is O(loglogx).  As x 
                can be obtained from that tuple, its complexity is O(loglogx).  But for a “random” 
                (incompressible) n-bit integer x the complexity is close to n and is not O(logn), as 
                this formula says (the logarithm of an n-bit number does not exceed n).  Euclid’s 
                theorem is proven.1
                      Is this a real application of Kolmogorov complexity or just cheating?  A skep­
                tical reader would say that we just retell, in terms of Kolmogorov complexity, the 
                following counting arguments.  If there are only m prime numbers, then there are 
                at most (log x)m different integers between 1 and x, since any integer in this range 
                is  determined by the m powers in its decomposition,  and each power is less than 
                logx.  This immediately leads to a contradiction, since x > (logx)m for large x.
                      This  is  indeed  true:  our  reasoning  using  Kolmogorov  complexity  is  a direct 
                translation  of this  argument  (and  is  a bit  more  cumbersome  due  to  asymptotic 
                notation).  However, such a translation may still have sense, since the new language 
                provides  new  intuition,  and  this  intuition  may  be  useful  even  if later  the  same 
                argument can be translated into the standard language.
                      We return to this discussion after looking at other applications.
                                         8.2.  Moving information along the tape
                      The other toy example  is  a well-known  result  saying that  duplication  of an 
                n-bit  string on  the  tape  of a Turing machine  (with one tape only)  requires en2
                      Hn [103] this argument continues as follows.  If N has a prime factor pn (the nth prime), then 
                we may encode AI as a pair (n, N/pn), so C(N) ^ K(n) + C(N/pn) + 0(l).  If N is incompressible, 
                then  logAr  ^  C(N)  ^  K{n) + log(AI/pn)  with  0(l)-precision,  so  logpn  ^  K(n) + 0(1).  This 
                gives an upper bound for pn  for infinitely many n; one should note only that  (as we have seen) 
                incompressible integers may have arbitrarily large factors.
                      The combinatorial translation of this argument goes as follows.  Let us choose some threshold 
                m, and consider all integers that have only prime factors below m.  These integers form a minority 
                among large integers, and all other integers have large prime factors.  This implies that every tail 
                of the series     1/p (inverse primes) is at least 1/2, so this series diverges.
                                                                     233
