         278      9.  FREQUENCY  AND  GAME APPROACHES TO RANDOMNESS
            Fix some computable measure 7Г on Q.  In this section we consider martingales 
         and null sets with respect to 7r;  we do  not require now that the initial capital of 
         the martingale is  1.  Now consider lower semicomputable martingales in the sense 
         of Section 4.1  (a function m is lower semicomputable if the set of pairs (r, x), where 
         a rational number r is less than m(x), is enumerable).
           The following problem explains why we should not require the initial capital 
         to be 1.
            265  Show that a lower semicomputable martingale m with m(A) = 1 is always
         computable.
           The following effective version of Ville’s result  (Theorem  177)  was discovered 
         by C. Schnorr [166]:
           Theorem 181.  (a)  Let m be a lower semicomputable martingale.  Then the set 
         of sequences on which m wins is an effectively null set.
           (b)  Let X  be an effectively null set.  Then there exists a lower semicomputable 
         martingale m that wins on all sequences in X .
           P r o o f,  (a)  Since  m is  lower  semicomputable,  the set  of sequences where it 
         exceeds an integer к at  some prefix is effectively open and has measure at  most 
         l/k.  (Here we consider the measure of an open set that is a union of a computable 
         sequence of intervals.  As usual,  we should modify the sequence and make these 
         intervals disjoint.)
           (b) If a set is effectively open and has measure less than l/k, then the martingale 
         constructed in  the proof of Theorem  176  is  lower  semicomputable  (when  a new 
         interval appears, the approximation to the martingale increases).  One precaution 
        is necessary,  though:  we should divide the measure of the intersection not by the 
        measure of the set (it may be non-computable) but by its upper bound l/k (so we 
        should multiply the measure by k).  The root value of the martingale is then less 
        than 1, but this is allowed.
           It remains to sum up the martingales for different к with suitable (computable) 
        coefficients, as is done in the proof of Theorem 177.  Note that the sum will also be 
        semicomputable.                                         □
           This result can be strengthened in two directions.  First in the proof of (b) we 
        actually construct  a martingale that  strongly  wins on all sequences in X  (as we 
        have discussed).  In fact, we also can repeat the second proof of Theorem 178 and 
        convert a lower semicomputable martingale into another martingale which is also 
        lower semicomputable and strongly wins on all sequences where the first one wins.
           Second, we can extend the notion of martingale and consider lower semicom­
        putable  semimartingales,  also  called  supermartingales.  Supermartingales  corre­
        spond to games where the player at each step can donate some part of the capital. 
        The definition of a supermartingale requires that
                           m{x) ^ (m(x0) + m(xl))/2
        (for the uniform measure) or
                       m(x)7г(х) ^ m(x0)7r(x0) + m{xl)n{xl)
        (for arbitrary measure 7r)  instead of the corresponding equality.  Since the dona­
        tions can only decrease the capital, the upper bound for the probability of winning
