                                   APPENDIX  1
              Complexity and foundations of probability
            In  this section there are no theorems and no proofs.  Instead,  we discuss the 
         foundations of probability theory (the connection between probability theory as a 
         part of mathematics, and its applications to the real world), especially the role of 
         the algorithmic information theory, following [180].
                            Probability theory paradox
            One often describes the natural sciences framework as follows:  A hypothesis is 
         used to predict something, and the prediction is then checked against the observed 
         actual behavior of the system.  If there is a contradiction, the hypothesis needs to 
         be changed.
            Can we include probability theory in this framework?  A statistical hypothesis 
         (say, the assumption of a fair coin) should be then checked against the experimental 
         data (results of coin tossing)  and rejected if some discrepancy is found.  However, 
         there  is  an  obvious  problem:  The  fair  coin  assumption  says  that  in  a series  of, 
         say,  1000 coin tossings  all of the  21000  possible outcomes  (all  21000  bit  strings of 
         length 1000) have the same probability 2“1000.  How can we say that some of them 
         contradict the assumption while other do not?
            The same paradox can be explained in a different way.  Consider a casino that 
         wants to outsource the task of card shuffling to  a special factory that  produced 
         shrink-wrapped  well-shuffled  decks  of cards.  This  factory  would  need  a quality 
         control department.  It looks at the deck before shipping it to the customer, blocks 
         some badly shuffled decks, and approves some others as well shuffled.  But how is 
         it possible if all n! orderings of n cards have the same probability?
            Here is a modernized version of the same paradox.  Imagine that a company 
         that runs a multiple-choice test for millions of students decided to make for each 
         participant  an  individual  version  of the  test  by  random  permutation  of possible 
         answers to each question.  Imagine that in one of the copies all the correct answers 
         turn out to be labeled as  “A”. Should they discard this copy?
                               Current best practice
            Whatever the philosophers say, statisticians have to perform their duties.  Let 
         us try to provide a description of their current best practice (see [194,  175,  180]).
            A.  How a statistical hypothesis is  applied.  First of all, we have to admit that 
         probability theory makes no predictions but only gives recommendations:  If the 
         probability  (computed  on  the  basis  of the  statistical  hypothesis)  of an  event  A 
         is  much  smaller  than  the  probability  of an  event  B,  then  the  possibility  of the 
         event В  must  be  taken  into  consideration  to  a greater  extent  than  the possibility 
         of the event A (assuming the consequences are equally grave).  For example, if the
                                       455
