         414                  13.  INFORMATION  AND  LOGIC
            This statement is weaker than Theorem 238 because now the sets Хг may be 
         (and actually will  be)  infinite,  and  only  their  complexity  (not  the  length  of the 
         elements)  is  0(n).  It  would  be  nice  to  find  a direct  proof of the  full  version  of 
         Theorem 238.
            PROOF.  Let a finite Kripke model be given such that Ф(^,... ,tk) Is false (in 
         the  root).  For  every  integer  n,  using  this  model,  we  construct  sets  Xx,...,X*,. 
         (We omit the superscript n since n is fixed in the sequel.)  Let  (K, ^) denote the 
         underlying Kripke structure (a finite partially ordered set having the least element, 
         which is called the root-, the elements of К  are called w orlds).
            Let us fix some set L of non-negative integers including zero; we assume that 
         every two different elements of L differ significantly  (say,  at least ten times).  We 
         also assume that all non-zero elements of L are much bigger than n.  The elements 
         of L are called lengths in the sequel (we will consider strings whose lengths are in 
         L).  The elements of L are split between worlds in such a way that every world и 
         gets infinitely many lengths, and this subset of L is decidable.  We assume also that 
         zero length is assigned to the root world.  The lengths assigned to a world и are 
         called и-lengths and all strings of such lengths are said to belong to the world u.
            It is easy to see that all these requirements can be satisfied (in many ways).  Now 
         we can explain the construction of the set X* that corresponds to the variable ti. 
         This set is a (disjoint) union of two parts.  The first part contains all random strings 
         from worlds where ti is true (in the Kripke model).  The second part (denoted by 
         C in the sequel) consists of all pairs  (x, у) where x and у are random strings from 
         incomparable (in К) worlds.  The second part is the same for all variables.
            Here we need a technical clarification.  A string is called random in this argu­
         ment if its complexity is not too small compared to its length.  Let us choose some 
         threshold and say that a string is random if its complexity is not less than length/10. 
         To be technically correct,  we should replace pairs  (x,y)  by their encodings  [x,y\, 
         and use tags to distinguish between elements of different types:
              С = {[x,y\ I x,y are random strings from incomparable worlds},
             Xi = {Ox \ U is true at some world v,  and x is a random string from v} 
                   U{ly\ye C}.
         Note that strings from different worlds have different lengths, so for every element 
         of Xi we can reconstruct where it came from.
            Now we prove by induction on the length of the formula Ф(£ь ..., tk) the prop­
         erties of the problem Ф(Х1?..., X^).  Essentially, we prove that this problem can be 
         described in the same way as was done for variables.  More precisely, let us consider 
         the set Хф defined as follows:  it is the set of all random strings from worlds where 
         Ф is true (in the model), plus all elements of C (added with the same precautions 
         as  before,  with  tags,  pairs,  etc.).  We  prove  that  the  problem  Ф(Х1?... ,Xfc)  is 
         algorithmically equivalent  to  the set  Хф.  This  means  that for  every  formula  Ф 
         there exist two computable functions f, g such that /  transforms every solution to 
         Ф(Хх,..., Xk) into some element of Хф and g transforms every element of Xq, into 
         some solution to Ф(Хх,..., Xk).
            The base of induction (Ф is a variable U) is trivial:  by definition Хф coincides 
         with Xi, so we let /  and g be the identity function.  For the induction step, we need 
         to prove the following equivalences:
