                                                    6.4.  COMPLEXITIES  AND  ORACLES                                           207
                 follows that the function
                                                          77?/ (x) — lim inf m(x \ n)
                                                                       П —^OO
                 is  also  a semimeasure,  i.e.,  the sum ^ Xm'{x)  does not exceed  1.  If this function 
                 were O'-lower-semicomputable,  this would finish the proof;  however,  we have the 
                 equivalence
                                 r < lim inf m(x | n) ^  (3q > r) 3N (Vn > N) [q < m{x | n)],
                                        n—too
                 where the right-hand side has too many quantifiers (note that the property in the 
                 brackets is enumerable, not decidable).  But again we may replace the function m' 
                 by any larger function, so it remains to construct a OMower-semicomputable upper 
                 bound for m!.
                      To  achieve  this  goal,  let  us  consider  triples  (N, x, e)  (where  e  is  a  positive 
                 rational number).  For a given triple we try to increase the values m(-1 •)  up to e 
                 on a ray that consists of pairs  (n, x)  for fixed x and for all n ^ N.  This change is 
                 performed only if we get semimeasures (i.e., for every n the sum over all x does not 
                 exceed 1).
                      As before, we can check whether such an increase is possible using a O'-oracle. 
                 (Indeed,  the  violation  is  an  enumerable  event.)  Let  us  consider  sequentially  all 
                 triples and perform the increase when possible (the increased values are taken into 
                 account  on  the  subsequent  steps).  Then  for  each  possible  increase we  keep  the 
                 values of x and e.  In other words, we consider a function that on every x is equal 
                 to the upper bound of all e that are used for increase together with that x.  In this 
                way we get a O'-enumerable family of semimeasures that is an upper bound for m!. 
                Indeed, if m! is greater than e for some x, the function m is greater than e on some 
                 ray, an increase does not really change anything and therefore is permitted.                                   □
                      To formulate a similar statement for K(x ||  ^ n), we should first of all define 
                 this prefix complexity relative to a set.  Here we have several possibilities, and it is 
                 unclear which of them is  “the right thing”.
                      We may try to define K(x\\A)  and the minimal prefix complexity of a pro­
                gram that outputs x when applied to every element of A.  However, Problem 109 
                 (p.  104) shows that this definition does not match K(x\a) for singleton conditions, 
                so probably this definition is not a good one.
                      Another definition is similar to the approach used in Problem 206.  Consider 
                an arbitrary computable function (p, x) H>- D(p, x) that is prefix stable with respect 
                to its first  argument  (if the second one is fixed).  For any x and for any set A we 
                then define Кв{к\\А)  as the minimal length of a string p such that f(p,n)  =  k 
                for  all  n  €  A.  The  difference  (compared to plain complexity)  is  that  we require 
                the conditional decompressor to be prefix stable with respect to the first argument. 
                There  exists  an  optimal  decompressor  in  this  class  that  gives  the  least  function 
                Kd (up to an 0(l)-additive term).  This function can be called prefix complexity 
                K{x\\A).
                       207            Show that the same complexity (up to 0(1)) is obtained if decompressors 
                are  computable continuous  mappings  E  —>  F  (here  E  is  the space  of finite  and 
                infinite sequences of zeros and ones,  and F is the space of partial functions from 
                N to N) and complexity is the length of a shortest string that is mapped to some 
                partial function that is equal to x on all elements of A.
