                                                  CHAPTER 3
                                     Martin-Löf randomness
                 Here we interrupt the exposition of Kolmogorov complexity and its properties 
             to  define  another basic  notion of the  algorithmic  information  theory,  the  notion 
             of a Martin-Löf random  (or  “typical”)  sequence.  This  chapter does not  refer to 
             the preceding one, which is not used again until Chapter 5 where we characterize 
             randomness in terms of Kolmogorov complexity.
                 Let us recall some basic facts of measure theory for the case of the Cantor space 
             of infinite sequences of zeros and ones.
                                             3.1.  Measures on Q
                 Consider the set  Q  = BN  whose elements are infinite sequences of zeros  and 
             ones.  This set is called  Cantor space.  For a binary string x we consider a set     of 
             all infinite sequences that have initial segment x.  For example, Qoo is the set of all 
             sequences that start with two zeros, and Од = ^ (where Л is the empty string).
                 The sets Q.x are called intervals.  All intervals and all unions of arbitrary families 
             of intervals are called  open subsets of Q.  In this way we get a topology on Q, and 
             this topology corresponds to a standard distance function on Q defined as follows: 
             the longer the common prefix two sequences ш — coquji • • •  and ui1 = u>qU)'x • • •  have, 
             the smaller the distance between them:
                                                 d(w,w') = 2“n,
             where n is the smallest index such that и>п ф u)'n.
                  66 Prove that topological space Q is homeomorphic to the Cantor set on the
             real  line.  (This set  is obtained from  [0,1]  by deleting the middle third,  then the 
             middle third of two remaining segments and so on.)
                 However, we are interested in measure theory rather than topology.  A family 
             of subsets of Q is called a a-algebra if it is closed under finite or countable unions 
             and intersections, and under negation (taking the complement).
                 A minimal cr-algebra that contains all intervals Q.x (and therefore all open sets) 
             is called the algebra of Borel sets.
                 Consider an arbitrary cr-algebra that contains all intervals.  Let p be a function 
             that maps every set in this cr-algebra into a non-negative real number, and has the 
             following property (called a-additivity)-.
                       if a set  A  is  a union  of a countable or finite family of disjoint 
                       sets  Ao, A\, A2,...  that  belong to the cr-algebra on which p is 
                       defined, then
                                     p{A) — p{Aq) + p(Ai) + р{АФ) + • • •
                       (the right-hand side is a finite sum or a converging series with 
                       non-negative terms).
                                                        53
