                        2.  COMPLEXITY  OF  PAIRS  AND  CONDITIONAL  COMPLEXITY
            50
            Indeed, it is easy to see that these equations determine an invertible linear transfor­
            mation of M7:  each 7-t.uple of complexities corresponds to unique value of variables
            <2i, ..., Й7.
                Conditional  complexities  and expressions  for  mutual  information  are combi­
            nations of complexities and therefore could be rewritten in new coordinates.  For 
            example,
            I{x:y) = C(x) + C(y) — C(x, y) = a2 + a5 and C(x\y) = C(x,y) ~C(y) = cq +a4.
                What is the intuitive meaning of these new coordinates?  It is easy to see that 
            ai = C(x\y, z) (with logarithmic precision).  The meaning of аз (and a?) is similar. 
            The coordinate a2  (with the same precision)  is  I(x:y\z);  coordinates a4  and üq 
            have similar meaning (see Figure 6).  In particular, we conclude that for any strings 
            x, y, z the corresponding values of coordinates a\. a2, аз, а4, üq, a-j are non-negative 
            (up to O(logn) for strings X, y, z of complexity at most n).
                      Figure 6.  The complexity interpretation of new coordinates
                The coordinate as  is more delicate.  Informally,  we would like to understand 
            it  as the  “amount of mutual information in three strings x, y, z”.  Sometimes the 
            notation I(x:y.z)  is used.  However,  the meaning of this expression is not quite 
            clear, especially if we take into account that as can be negative.
                Consider the following example where as  < 0.  Let x and y be two halves of 
            an incompressible string of length 2n.  Then C(x)  = n,  C(y) — n,  C(x,y)  = 2n, 
            and I(x\y) — 0 (up to O(logn)).  Consider a string z of length n which is a bitwise 
            sum modulo 2 of x and y  (XOR-operation).  Then each of the strings x,y, z can 
            be reconstructed if two others are known;  therefore,  the complexities of all pairs 
            C(x,y), C(y, z), C(x, z) are equal to 2n (again up to O(logn)), and the complexity 
            C(x, y, z)  is also 2n.  The complexity of z is equal to n  (it cannot be larger, since 
            the length is n; on the other hand, it cannot be smaller, since z and y form a pair 
            of complexity 2n).
                The values of a\,..., a-j for this example are shown in Figure 7.
