                                  14.4.  HYPOTHESES  OF  RESTRICTED  TYPE                  445
            definition the same short program must transform every y' to an x'.  This implies 
            that the non-uniform complexity cannot exceed the uniform one.  The non-uniform 
            complexity can by much less than the uniform one (see [54] for details).
                Theorem 254 provided a criterion saying whether a given string has а (г * j)- 
            description (unrestricted).  It is not clear whether similar criterion could be found 
            for an arbitrary class A of allowed descriptions.  On the other hand, Theorem 255 
            is  (with minimal changes) valid for an arbitrary enumerable family of descriptions; 
            see conditions (l)-(3) on p. 439.
                Theorem 258.  Let A be an enumerable family of finite sets.  Assume that x is 
            a string of length n that has at least 2k  different (i * j)-descriptions from A.  (Recall 
            that the (i* j)-description of x is a finite set of complexity at mosti and cardinality 
            at most 2J  containing x.)  Then x has some ((г — к) * j)-description from A.
                Therefore, if A satisfies also the requirement  (3), the string x in this theorem 
            also has an (г * (j — fc))-description.  (See above about the version of Theorem 252 
            for restricted descriptions.)
                As usual, these statements need logarithmic terms to be exact (this means that 
            0 (log(n+i+j+fc))-terms should be added to the description parameters).
                Proof.  Let us enumerate all (i * j)-descriptions from A, i.e., finite sets that 
            belong to A,  and  have  cardinality  at  most  2J  and complexity  at  most  i.  For  a 
            fixed n, we start a selection process:  some of the generated descriptions are marked 
            (=selected) immediately after their generation.  This process should satisfy the fol­
            lowing requirements:  (1) at any moment every уг-bit string x that has at least 2k 
            descriptions  (among enumerated ones) belongs to one of the marked descriptions; 
            (2) the total number of marked sets does not exceed 2г~кр(п, k,i,j) for some poly­
            nomial p.  So we need to construct a selection strategy (of logarithmic complexity). 
            We present two proofs:  a probabilistic one and an explicit construction.
                Probabilistic proof.  First  we consider  a finite game  that  corresponds  to 
            our situation.  The game is played by two players, whose turn to move alternates. 
            Each player makes 2г  moves.  At each move the first player presents some set of 
            n-bit strings, and the second player replies saying whether it marks this set or not. 
            The second player loses,  if after some moves the number of marked sets exceeds 
            2г-/с+1(п _|_ i) in 2  (this specific value follows from the argument below) or if there 
            exists a string x that belongs to 2k sets of the first player but does not belong to 
            any marked set.
                Since this is a finite game with full information, one of the players has a winning 
            strategy.  We claim that the second player can win.  If it is not the case, the first 
            player has a winning strategy.  We get a contradiction by showing that the second 
            player has a probabilistic strategy that wins with positive probability against any 
            strategy of the first player.  So we assume that some (deterministic) strategy of the 
            first  player is fixed and consider the following simple probabilistic strategy of the 
            second player:  every set A presented by the first player is marked with probability 
            p = 2~k(n + 1) In2.
                The expected number of marked sets is р2г = 2г~к(п + 1) ln 2.  By Chebyshev’s 
            inequality,  the number of marked set exceeds the expectation by a factor 2 with 
            probability less than 1/2.  So it is enough to show that the second bad case (after 
            some move there exists x that belongs to 2k sets of the first player but does not 
            belong to any marked set) happens with probability at most 1/2.
