                                 5.8.  EFFECTIVE  HAUSDORFF  DIMENSION                   173
            a is smaller than the threshold, one of these covers is better than the original one, 
            so we may increase the sizes of intervals, and finally get a contradiction.)
                 168       Give a natural definition of the Hausdorff dimension for the subsets of 
            M3.  Explain why the dimension equals 3 for solids, 2 for surfaces, 1 for curves, and 
            0 for isolated points.  Show that for any d G [0,3], there is a subset of M3 that has 
            dimension d.
                The effective version of Hausdorff dimension is defined in a natural way [190, 
            152].  A set A C S7 is an  effective а-null set  (for a given a > 0)  if there exists an 
            algorithm that, for any given e > 0, enumerates a set /о, ii, /2,... of intervals that 
            cover A such that ^2(ß(Ik))a < £•  (Here /r is the uniform measure on fl).
                As in the classical case, the property is monotone (it remains true if cc increases 
            or  A  decreases).  The main difference between  the classical  and effective case  is 
            shown by the following theorem:
                Theorem 117.  For every rational a > 0,  there exists the largest  (with respect 
            to inclusion)  effectively а-null set.
                PROOF.  The proof goes in the same way as for effectively null  (=l-null) sets 
            (Chapter 3).  The countable union of cc-null sets (in the classical sense) is an cc-null 
            set.  In the same way the union of an enumerable family of effectively cc-null sets is 
            an cc-null set.  On the other hand, if cc is a rational number (or even a computable 
            real),  we can enumerate all effectively cc-null sets  (or,  better, the algorithms that 
            serve these sets) by enumerating all algorithms and changing them when too large 
            intervals are generated.                                                     □
                 169       Prove that the largest effectively cc-null set consists of all the sequences 
            oj such that the difference an — K(n) has 110 upper bounds.
                (Hint:  The proof is similar to the proof of the prefix complexity version of the 
            Levin-Schnorr theorem.)
                The following result (A.Khodyrev) is not used in the sequel (for the definition 
            of the Hausdorff dimension, rational cc’s are sufficient),  but it is interesting in its 
            own right.  Let a be an arbitrary real number.
                Theorem 118.  The largest effectively а-null set exists if and only if a is lower 
            semicomputable.
                P r o o f.  Assume that cc is lower semicomputable.  This means that we can gen­
            erate better and better approximations from below to cc, but we do not know their 
            precision.  If we use these approximations  (instead of true cc)  in the requirements 
            for the cover (in the definition of an effectively cc-null set), we get stronger require­
            ments.  Consider the algorithm from the previous theorem that generates covers of 
            the largest effectively cc-null set, and let it use rational lower approximations of cc 
            instead of cc itself, with the following modification.  Do not reject permanently the 
            intervals that violate these requirements, but postpone them and check again when 
            a new approximation to cc arrives.  If a cover satisfies the requirement for the true cc, 
            all its intervals will be eventually let through.
                On the  other  hand,  let  us  assume  that  for  some  cc  there  exists  the  largest 
            effectively  cc-null  set.  Consider  the  algorithm  that  generates  covers  for  it.  This 
            algorithm can be used to obtain lower bounds for cc.  Indeed, if for some rational e 
            the algorithm produces a finite family of intervals (at some step)  and /З-powers of 
            the measures of these intervals exceed e, this means that ß < a.
