                                               9.4.  VILLE’S  EXAMPLE                                269
             So first the root is active, until it happens ko times.  Then 0 or 1 is active (depending 
             on whether the rule S ^  selects the next term or not) until they become “tired” of 
             being active ki times, etc.
                  In  this  way we construct  a sequence coocoi ■ • •  that  is a mixture of countably 
             many finite subsequences that correspond to countably many possible active ver­
             tices.  The subsequence that corresponds to vertex x (the terms constructed at the 
             steps  when x  was  active)  has  length  at  most  кцх)  (but  it  may  be  shorter).  As 
             before,  we  choose u)n  in such  a way  that  all  these  subsequences  are  of the  form 
             010101 •••.
                  Let  us  look  at  the  subsequence selected  from cj  by       and show that  it  is 
             balanced (or finite).  Now the situation is a bit more complicated:  First, we have 
             countably many subsequences, and second, the rule Sд. was initially ignored (when 
             the active vertices were shorter than i).  Let us look at the subsequence selected 
             by SR.  more closely.  It consists of terms of two types.  First, there are some terms 
             that correspond to active vertices of height less than i, so          was not taken into 
             account.  Second,  Sr.  includes  all  the  terms  that  correspond  to  active  vertices 
             where the ?th bit equals  1.  The number of terms of the first type is bounded by 
             2°ko + • • • + 2l~lki-\, so we can safely ignore them.
                  As  for  the  terms  of the  second  type,  note  that  for  every  active  vertex  the 
             subsequence  corresponding to  this  vertex  is  010101 • • •,  and  each  of its  prefixes 
             contains no more ones than zeros, and the difference is at most 1.  So the imbalance 
             in the selected subsequence (if we ignore terms of the first type) at some moment 
             t  is  bounded by the number of active vertices appearing at that moment.  Let N 
             be the maximal height of the active vertices used before £; we assume that N ^ i 
             (otherwise there is no term of the second type).  Then at most 0(2N) active vertices 
             were used, and the imbalance is at most 0(2^).  On the other hand, since the vertex 
             of height N became active, the preceding active vertices should be used completely, 
             so the length of the sequence is at least км-1-  It remains to use that 2N = о(км-i).
                  So we have described an explicit construction of a sequence that has the fre­
             quency stability property with respect to a given countable family of selection rules. 
             Does it  give something really new when compared to the probabilistic existence 
             proof?  Yes.  For example, we may note that in this sequence each prefix contains 
             at least as many zeros as ones, since this is true for all the 010101 ■ • ■  pieces.  So we 
             have proved the following result:
                  Theorem  172  (Ville’s  example).  There  exists  a  Mises-Church  random  se­
             quence where each prefix contains at least as many zeros as ones.
                  (We can also get a sequence whose prefixes have strictly more zeros than ones 
             just by starting with first bit 1 and then using the construction.)
                  This result can be used to prove that there exists a Mises-Church random se­
             quence that is not  ML-random.  For that it would be enough to prove that this 
             property  (more zeros than ones)  is not  possible for an ML-random sequence.  It 
             is  indeed that  the case,  and it  is  a consequence of the Effective Law of the Iter­
             ated Logarithm—but,  unfortunately,  not  the part  that  we proved in Section 8.4 
             (Theorem 156).
                   261        Prove that in this case we do not really need the effective version:  If the 
             set of sequences that have more zeros than ones in all prefixes is a null set, then it 
             is an effectively null set.
