                       12.4.  COMBINATORIAL INTERPRETATION OF MUCHNIK’S THEOREM                 373
                 Therefore, A has a good (not bad) right neighbor X.  Then
                                        C{X\A)      (3 + e) log a + 0(1)
             (to specify X we provide m, a, and the ordinal number of X among the neighbors 
             of A;  we need some e > 0 to take care of pair encoding).  The length of X is m, 
             i.e.,  C(A\B).  Finally, C{A\B,X) does not exceed (6 + e)loga (we need 4 log a to 
             specify the ordinal number of X among a4 left neighbors of X, and 2 log a is needed 
             to specify m and a; again we use some e to cover pair encoding).
                 The Muchnik theorem is proven.                                                  □
                  319        Show  that  we  have  proven  a  bit  stronger  property  that  we  claimed: 
             We assumed that the complexity of В is bounded by n,  but we never used this 
             assumption.
                 Let  us  recall  that  all  the  inequalities  in  Muchnik’s  theorem  are  true  with 
             0(logn)-precision,  where  n  is  the  maximal  complexity  of  A  and  B.   Can  we 
             strengthen the claim by requiring 0 (logm)-precision for m equal to maximal con­
             ditional complexities C(A\B) and C(B\A)?  It turns out that this is not possible; 
             see [205, Section 5]  (we do not reproduce the proof here).
                     12.4.  Combinatorial interpretation of Muchnik’s theorem
                 Many results about Kolmogorov complexity have some combinatorial counter­
             part, an equivalent statement of purely combinatorial nature that does not mention 
             Kolmogorov complexity.  In many cases this statement is about the existence of a 
             winning strategy in some game.  (See [132] about this effect in general computabil­
             ity theory;  [136] considers the special case of Kolmogorov complexity.)
                 Theorem  229  (proven  in  the  previous  section)  also  has  some  combinatorial 
             counterpart.  For given values of a,  b, m  (we assume that m ^ a), we consider a 
             two-player game.  The players are called Mathematician (M) and Adversary (A). 
             The game also has some parameter c (that corresponds to the constant in O(logn)- 
             notation; see below).
                 M may select for every а-bit string A at most c(a + b)c strings of length m; she 
             declares these strings as  “simple relative to A”.  Also for each pair of strings В  (of 
             length b) and X (of length m) she may select at most c(a + b)c strings of length a 
             and declare them as “simple relative to В, X”.
                 A may select for each fe-bit string В at most 2Tn strings of length a and declare 
             them as “simple relative to В”.
                 Each player  may  make the  next  move  (i.e.,  declare  more strings  as  simple) 
             at  any moment  (whatever the opponent does), seeing the moves of the opponent 
             made earlier.  We get a game that is essentially finite—the declared strings cannot 
             be taken back,  so the game reaches some limit  position.  However,  watching the 
             game,  we may not know whether this limit position is reached, since the players 
             keep right to make moves even if they do not exercise this right.
                 The limit position of the game determines the winner as follows:
                      M wins if for every string В of length b and for every string A 
                      of length a declared (by A) simple relative to H, there exists a 
                      string X of length m that is declared (by M) simple relative to 
                      A,  such that  A  is  declared  (again by  M)  simple relative to  В 
                      and X.
