                       14.  ALGORITHMIC STATISTICS
       426
       is  a singleton  {x}.  On  the  other hand,  in the  third  example  (a random-looking 
       sequence) the  “explanation set”  is the set of all strings.
          There are some intermediate examples.  Imagine that our device produced a 
       sequence of length  106 where the first 500,000 bits are zeros and the second half 
       is  a  random-looking sequence of length  500,000 without  any visible regularities. 
       Then we may guess that the device first produces 500,000 zeros and then switches 
       to another mode and produces 500,000 random bits.  Here the explanation set has 
       cardinality 2500,000  and consists of all strings of length  1,000,000 that start with 
       500,000 zeros.
          The general framework that covers all our examples, can be explained as follows: 
       given a string x, we suggest some finite set A that contains x and can be considered 
       as a reasonable explanation for x.  What do we mean by  “reasonable”?  Here are 
       two natural requirements:
            •  the set A should be simple  (its Kolmogorov complexity C(A) should be 
             small);
            •  the string x should be a “typical”  element of A.
          More specifically, Kolmogorov complexity C(A) of a finite set A is the complex­
       ity of the list of its elements (written in some fixed order, e.g., sorted in alphabetic 
       order, and encoded by a binary string).  It does not depend on the specific ordering 
       (lexicographical or any other computable total ordering) and on the encoding (up 
       to a constant).
          The notion of a “typical representative of a set” can also be made more precise 
       using Kolmogorov complexity.  Recall that if a set A consists of N elements, then 
       the conditional complexity C(x\A) of every x in A does not exceed logiV + 0(1) 
       (each element  can be described by its ordinal number in A—assuming that A is 
       known).  For most x in A the complexity C(x\ A) is close to logiV, since only very 
       few elements have smaller complexity.  Informally speaking, an element x is typical 
       in A if d(x I A) is negligible.
          Let us reformulate this in the following way.  Consider a finite set A, an element 
       x e A, and the difference
                       d(x\ A) = log|A| — C{x\ A).
       As we have seen, this difference is non-negative (up to 0(1)).  We call it the ran­
       domness deficiency of x as an element of A.  Note that we do not use this formula 
       to define d(x \ A) if x is not in A; in this case d(x | A) is undefined.  (It is also natural 
       to let d(x I A) be +oo when x £ A, since in this case the explanation A is completely 
       unsuitable for x.)
          An element x is typical in A if d(x \ A) is negligible.
          345   Prove that for a given A the probability of the event “a randomly chosen 
       element x 6 A has deficiency greater than k”  does not exceed 2~k.
          (Here probability means just the fraction of elements with given property in A.) 
       In fact,  to make this statement true, we need to replace log|A|  by  [bgAJ;  since 
       complexity is defined up to a constant anyway, we are not that pedantic.
          Let  us  note also that the  function d  (with two  arguments x and A)  is lower 
       semicomputable  (enumerable from below):  We can effectively provide more and 
       more precise lower bounds for it, but we cannot say when its value was achieved. 
       (Indeed, function C is upper semicomputable.)
