            456            1.  COMPLEXITY  AND  FOUNDATIONS  OF  PROBABILITY
            probability of A is smaller than the probability of being killed on the street by a 
            meteorite, we usually ignore A completely (since we have to ignore event В anyway 
            in our everyday life).
                Borel [22, pp. 232-233] describes this principle as follows:
                     ... Il y a à Paris moins d’un million d’hommes adultes ; El’s jour­
                     naux rapportent chaque jour des accidents ou incidents bizarres 
                     arrivés à l’un d’eux ; la vie serait impossible si chacun craignait 
                     continuellement pour lui-même toutes les aventures qu’on peut 
                     lire  dans  le  faits  divers  cela revient  à dire  qu’on  doit  négliger 
                     pratiquement les probabilités inférieures à un millionième.  (...)
                         Souvent la peur d’un mal fait tomber dans un pire.
                         Pour savoir  distinguer  le  pire,  il  est  bon  de  connaître  les 
                     probabilités des diverses éventualités— 1 2 
                B. How a statistical hypothesis is tested.  Here we cannot say naively that if we 
            observe some event that has negligible probability according to our hypothesis, we 
            reject this hypothesis.  Indeed, this would mean that any 1000-bit sequence of the 
            outcomes would make the fair coin assumption rejected (since this specific sequence 
            has negligible probability 2"1000).
                Here algorithmic information theory comes into play:  We reject the hypoth­
            esis if we observe a simple event that has negligible probability according to this 
            hypothesis.  For example,  if coin tossing produces a thousand tails,  this event  is 
            simple and has negligible probability,  so we do not believe the coin is fair.  Both 
            conditions  (simple and negligible probability)  are important:  the event  “the first 
            bit is a tail”  is simple but has probability 1/2, so it does not discredit the coin.  On 
            the other hand, every sequence of outcomes has negligible probability 2“1000, but 
            if it is not simple, its appearance does not discredit the fair coin assumption.
                Often both parts of this scheme are combined into a statement  “events with 
            small probabilities do not happen”.  For example, Borel writes:  “.. .je suis arrivé 
            à la conclusion qu’on ne devrait pas craindre d’employer le mot de certitude pour 
            désigner une probabilité qui différé de l’unité d’une quantité suffisamment petite” 
            ([22,  p.  5]).2  Sometimes  this  statement  is  called  the  “Cournot  principle”.  But 
            we prefer to distinguish between these two stages, because for the hypothesis test­
            ing the existence of a simple description of an event with negligible probability is 
            important,  and for application of the hypothesis it seems unimportant.  (We can 
            expect, however, that events interesting to us have simple descriptions because of 
            their interest.)
                          Simple events and events specified in advance
                Unfortunately, this scheme remains not very precise:  the Kolmogorov complex­
            ity of an object x (defined as the minimal length of the program that produces x) 
            depends on the choice of programming language.  We need also to fix some way to
                1 Fewer than a million people live in Paris.  Newspapers daily inform us about the strange 
            events or accidents that happen to some of them.  Our life would be impossible if we were afraid 
            of all  adventures  we read about.  So one can say that from a practical viewpoint we can ignore 
            events with probability less that one millionth. . .  Often  by  trying  to  avoid something  bad we  are 
            confronted  with  even  w orse...  To  avoid  this,  it  is  good  to  know  the  probabilities  of different 
            events.
                21 came to the conclusion that one must not be afraid to use the word certainty to describe 
            a probability that falls short of unity by a sufficiently small quantity.
