             336            10.  INEQUALITIES  FOR ENTROPY,  COMPLEXITY AND  SIZE
             partition of minimal weight has c-uniform parts for some constant c that is (as well 
             as  d  and  I)  determined  by  n  (though  c  increases  fast  as  a function  of n).  This 
             finishes the alternative proof of the lemma that uses weights instead of Kolmogorov 
             complexities.
                           10.10.  The inequalities for two and three strings
                 As  we  have  seen,  there  exists  some  class  of linear  inequalities  that  can  be 
             defined in many equivalent ways, using entropies, complexities, sizes of projections 
             of uniform sets,  sizes of subgroups,  etc.  This  is  indeed  remarkable,  but  what  is 
             this class?  Can we give some explicit description of it?  Unfortunately, it remains a 
             wide open problem, and this class is known only for the simple case n ^ 3.  Let us 
             describe the answer.
                 For n = 1 the situation is trivial.  For n = 2 we have the inequalities
               оайКЯй.Ы,  0^Я(6КЯКЬЙ),
             which (in other words) say that all three quantities
                                         tf(ftlïi),       16), Щ г-Ь )
             are non-negative.  On the other hand, it is easy to see that these three quantities 
             may be arbitrary  non-negative  real  numbers.  Take  three  independent  variables 
             a, ß, 7 with arbitrary non-negative entropies, and let
                                             £i = (a,/?),£> = {ßi l)-
             Then we have #(£i|6 ) = H(a), /(£i:6 ) = H(ß), and #(&|£i)  =  H{i).  So 
             the three inequalities listed above are necessary and sufficient for a triple of real 
             numbers to be equal to
                                             Я «1),Я (& ),Я (|„6)
             for some random variables 0  and £2-  So we do not need other inequalities since any 
             other inequality is a consequence of these three.  Note also that linear programming 
             guarantees that  every consequence is  a non-negative linear combination of these 
             three inequalities.
                 In fact, this statement is not just the description of all true linear inequalities 
             for entropies (complexities, etc.)  in the case n — 2:  We have shown also that every 
             triple of reals that satisfies our inequalities can appear as an entropy triple.  Let us 
             repeat this statement in geometric language.
                 Each n-tuple of random variables determines a point that is a tuple of 2n — 1 
             values of entropies (for n = 2 we get points in three-dimensional space).  Consider 
             all these points  (for all n-tuples of random variables).  We get some set E in the 
             corresponding vector space.  The linear inequalities for entropies are closed half­
             spaces that contain E.  In the case n = 2, as we have seen, the set E is exactly the 
             intersection of half-spaces corresponding to the inequalities listed above.
                 In the general case the intersection of all the half-spaces containing some set 
             can be bigger than the set itself.  For example, this happens if the set is not convex 
             or not closed.  So even if we know all the inequalities for entropies, we have only 
             some partial  information  about  E.  On the  other  hand,  the  inequalities  are  the 
             most interesting part, since the equivalence is proven only for inequalities.  The sets 
             themselves are different (e.g., the sizes of projections are logarithms of integers, for 
             Kolmogorov complexity everything is defined only up to some 0(l)-term, etc.).
