             438                         14.  ALGORITHMIC  STATISTICS
                 To get a stronger second statement, we need to decrease the number of groups 
             in  this  argument  to  2г~к  (keeping the number  of elements approximately at  the 
             same level).  It can be done as follows.  Again we enumerate sets of complexity at 
             most i and size at most 2J and look at the strings that are covered many times.  But 
             now we also consider the strings that  are covered with multiplicity 2k~x  (half of 
             the full multiplicity considered before); we call them candidates.  When an element 
             with full multiplicity appears, we output this element together with all candidates 
             that exist at that moment.
                 In this way we may output elements that will never reach the full multiplicity, 
             but this is not a problem since the total number of emitted elements can increase at 
             most twice compared to our count.  The advantage is that the number of groups is 
             now much smaller:  after all candidates are emitted, we need at least 2fc_1 new sets 
             to  get  a new element with full multiplicity  (its  multiplicity should  increase from 
             2 k ~ 1  to 2 k).                                                                   □
                 This result has the following important corollary:
                 Theorem 256.  If a string x has an (i*j)~ description A such that C(A\x) ^ k, 
             then x has also an (i * (j — k))-description and even an ((г — к) * j)-description.
                 Again we omit the logarithmic corrections needed for the exact formulation.
                 PROOF.  Knowing  x  and  the  values  of г  and  j  (the  latter  information  is  of 
             logarithmic  size),  we  can  enumerate  all  (i * ^-descriptions  of x.  Therefore,  the 
             complexity of each (г * j)-description given x does not exceed the logarithm of the 
             number of descriptions, and if there is an (i*j)-description A with large C(A \ x), this 
             means that there are many descriptions, and we can apply the previous theorem.  □
                 This statement shows that the descriptions with optimal parameters  (on the 
             boundary of Px for a given x) are simple relative to x.  Which, intuitively speaking, 
             is not surprising at all:  If a description contains some irrelevant information  (not 
             related to x), it hardly could be optimal.
                 Historical remarks.  The idea of considering two-part descriptions with optimal 
            parameters goes back to Kolmogorov.  Theorem 252 was mentioned by Kolmogorov 
             in  his  talk  in  1974  [82].  It  appeared  in  print  in  [60,  178].  Possible  shapes  of 
            the set Px  (Theorem 253) were found in [203].  The enumerations of all objects of 
             bounded complexity and their relation to two-part descriptions were studied in [60, 
             Section III, Е].  Theorem 254,  although inspired by  [60]  and  [203],  is presumably 
            new.  Theorems 255 and 256 appeared in [203].
                                  14.4.  Hypotheses of restricted type
                 In  this  section  we  consider  the  restricted  case:  the  sets  (considered  as  de­
            scriptions, or statistical hypotheses) are taken from some family A that is fixed in 
             advance.  (Elements of A are finite sets of binary strings.)  Informally speaking, this 
            means that we have some a priori information about the black box that produces a 
            given string:  This string is obtained by a random choice in one of the Л-sets, but 
            we do not know in which one.
                 Before we had no restrictions  (the family A was the family of all finite sets). 
            It turns out that the results obtained so far can be extended (with weaker bounds) 
            to other families that satisfy some natural conditions.  Let us formulate these con­
            ditions.
