            202                   6.  GENERAL SCHEME  FOR COMPLEXITIES
                 A related notion of complexity for functions was considered by Schnorr [168, 
             170].  Recall that a numbering  (an important notion in the recursion theory) is a 
            mapping v that maps each natural number n into some (partial) function vn whose 
            arguments and values are natural numbers.  A numbering v is  computable, if the 
             (partial) function of two arguments
                                               (n,x) ^  un(x)
            is  computable.  A numbering v is called a  Gödel numbering if for any other com­
            putable numbering p there exists a computable function that  reduces  p to  и in 
            the following sense:  pn  =  Vh(n)  for every n.  (In particular,  the range of a Gödel 
            numbering is the set of all computable functions.)
                Following  Schnorr,  we make this  condition stronger and  require additionally 
            that h(n) = O(n) (in other words, the length of the string h(n) exceeds the length of 
            string n at most by a constant, if we identify natural numbers with binary strings). 
            If such a function h exists for every computable numbering p, the numbering v is 
            called optimal.
                Theorem 130.  There exist optimal numberings.
                Proof.  Consider any reasonable programming language for functions of two 
            arguments, and let ûv be a p-numb er of the function obtained by fixing first argu­
            ment equal to v in the function that has program u.  (Here û is some self-delimiting 
            encoding of и, e.g., и with doubled bits and 01 appended.)                      '□
                Schnorr  [168,  170]  defined  the  complexity of a computable  function  as  the 
            logarithm of its minimal number on an optimal numbering.  (As before, the minimal 
            complexity of a function that maps x to у turns out to be equal to C(y \ x).)  Schnorr 
            has shown that any two optimal numberings v\ and        can be translated into each 
            other by a computable permutation 7Г that changes the size at most by 0 (1) (in both 
            directions):  this means that v\(n)  =  v-i(тг(п))  for every n and that 7r(n)  =  O(n) 
            and 7r- 1(n) = O(n).  The detailed proofs of these results can be found also in [11].
                                    6.4.  Complexities and oracles
                6.4.1.      Relativized  complexity.  Relativization  is  a well-known  method  in 
            computability theory.  We take  a definition  or  statement  that  involves  the class 
            of computable functions and replace computable functions by functions that are 
            computable with some oracle  (computable  relative  to  this oracle).  The oracle is 
            usually a total function a whose arguments and values are natural numbers and/or 
            binary strings, for example, a characteristic function of some set A.  An algorithm 
            is  allowed to call an  external procedure that computes the value a(n) for a given 
            value of the parameter n.  If ck is a characteristic function of a set A, this means 
            that we may ask whether some n belongs to A or not.  If the function a is not 
            computable, this permission to ask a-oracle increases our capabilities, and we get 
            a class of a-computable functions that contains all computable functions but also 
            some non-computable ones (including a).
                Then we can develop the general  theory  of algorithms  as  usual  and  define, 
            say,  tt-enumerable sets,  or ct-computable real numbers,  or  (closer to our subject) 
            a-lower-semico input able  semimeasures,  etc.  And  practically  all  the  theorems  of 
            general theory of algorithms  (and their proofs) remain valid, we just neqfl to add 
            “a-”  for all the notions.  This procedure is called relativization.
