            292          9.  FREQUENCY  AND  GAME  APPROACHES  TO  RANDOMNESS
            two:  ojni  is included in the first subsequence if щ is even, and in the second subse­
            quence otherwise.  At least one of these two subsequences is infinite and unbalanced. 
            So we can assume without loss of generality that the selection rule produces an in­
            finite unbalanced sequence that consists only of terms with even numbers (or only 
            of terms with odd numbers—this case is similar).  Knowing that we select only bits 
            with even numbers, we can read other bits at any time; this will not interfere with 
            the selection since these bits will be never selected.  So if the partial computable 
            rule starts a long computation, we may in parallel read the bits with odd numbers 
            (they may be requested later by the original rule or not; if the original rule requests 
            them, we have them already at hand and do not read them again).  This new selec­
            tion rule is defined by total functions F' and G' (if the original algorithm hangs at 
            some point, then the new one reads the terms with odd numbers one after another, 
            and never selects anything).                                                  □
                This proof reduces one partial selection rule to two total ones.
                How is the new definition of randomness related to the one previously given? 
            A partial answer is provided by the following theorem:
                Theorem  192.  (a)  Every  Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland  random  sequence  is 
            Mises-Church-Daley random (and, therefore, Mises-Church random).
                (b)  Every ML-random sequence is Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random.
                More precisely,  (a)  holds for every real p G  (0,1);  in  (b)  we assume that the 
            measure is uniform or equals Bv for some computable p (and both notions of ran­
            domness are understood accordingly).
                PROOF,  (a) Church-Daley admissible selection rules (including Church admis­
            sible rules) are a special case of Kolmogorov-Loveland admissible rules.
                (b) Here we use essentially the same argument as for Mises-Church randomness. 
            Assume that some computable p is fixed in the definition of Mises-Kolmogorov- 
            Loveland randomness,  and we require that every selected subsequence should be 
            finite or have limit frequency p.  For Martin-Löf randomness we consider the com­
            putable Bernoulli measure Bv that corresponds to independent trials with success 
            probability p.
                Fix some computable (partial) functions that consider the corresponding selec­
            tion rule Sf,g■  For every integer n and for every rational q, consider the set Dnq 
            of all n-bit  strings where the frequency of ones exceeds q.  We know that for the 
            fixed q  > p and for n —> oo, the Hp-measure of the set Dn^q  (more precisely,  the 
            Hp-measure of the set Dn%q  of all sequences that have a prefix in Dn^q)  decreases 
            exponentially.
                Now consider the preimage of this set with respect to Sf,g\ more precisely, con­
            sider the set of all sequences u> for which the selection rule produces a subsequence 
            of length at least n and the frequency of ones among the first n terms exceeds q.  It 
            is easy to see that Вp-measure of this set is bounded by Bp(Dn^q).
                Informally speaking, this happens because the output distribution of the selec­
            tion rule  applied to  Hp-distributed sequence has the same distribution Bp,  if we 
            ignore that some sequences are cut at some point (output sequence can be finite), 
            and cutting may only decrease the probability.  More precisely,  let f be a binary 
            string of length к — 1.  Consider the conditional probability of the event  “E = kth 
            bit  of the selected sequence is  1”  with the condition  “C = selected sequence has 
            length at least к and preceding bits are t”.  This probability is equal to p.  Indeed,
