               10                     INTRODUCTION.  WHAT IS THIS  BOOK ABOUT?
               of N, therefore
                        C(B(N)) < C(hm(N)) + 0(1) ^ /(bin(iV)) + 0(1) ^ log2 N + 0(1)
               (the first  inequality is provided by Theorem 3 and the second one is provided by 
               Theorem 2; term 0(1) stands for a bounded function).  So we obtain
                                             N <C(B{N))^\og2N + 0(l), 
               which cannot happen if N is large enough.                                                       □
                                 Some applications of Kolmogorov complexity
                   Let us start with a disclaimer:  the applications we will talk about are not real, 
               practical applications; we just establish relations between Kolmogorov complexity 
               and other important notions.
                   Occam’s razor.  We start with a philosophical question.  What do we mean 
              when we say that a theory provides a good explanation for some experimental data? 
              Assume that we are given some experimental data and there are several theories to 
              explain the data.  For example, the data might be the observed positions of planets 
              in  the  sky.  We  can  explain  them  as  Ptolemy  did,  with  epicycles  and  deferents, 
              introducing extra corrections when needed.  On the other hand,  we can use the 
              laws of the modern mechanics.  Why do we think that the modern theory is better? 
              A possible answer:  the modern theory can compute the positions of planets with 
              the same (or even better) accuracy given fewer parameters.  In other words, Kepler’s 
              achievement is a shorter description of the experimental data.
                   Roughly speaking, experimenters obtain binary strings and theorists find short 
              descriptions for them (thus proving upper bounds for complexities of those strings); 
              the shorter the description, the better the theorist.
                   This  approach  is sometimes called  “Occam’s  razor”  and  is  attributed to the 
              philosopher William of Ockham who said that  entities should  not  be multiplied 
              beyond necessity.  It is hard to judge whether he would agree with such an inter­
              pretation of his words.
                   We can use the same idea in more practical contexts.  Assume that we design 
              a machine that reads handwritten zip codes on envelopes.  We are looking for a 
              rule that separates, say, images of zeros from images of ones.  An image is given as 
              a Boolean matrix (or a binary string).  We have several thousands of images and 
              for each image we know whether it means 0 or 1.  We want to find a reasonable 
              separating rule (with the hope that it can be applied to the forthcoming images). 
              What does  “reasonable”  mean in this context?  If we just  list  all the images  in 
              our list  together with their classification,  we get a valid separation rule—at least 
              it  works  until  we  receive  a new  image—however,  the rule  is way too  long.  It  is 
              natural to assume that a reasonable rule must have a short description, that is, it 
              must have low Kolmogorov complexity.
                   Often an explanation for experimental data is only a tool to predict the future 
              elements of the data stream.  This aspect was the main motivation for Solomonoff 
              [187]; it is outside the scope of our book and is considered in the book of M. Hutter
              [es]-
                   Foundations  of probability  theory.  The probability theory itself,  being 
              currently a part of measure theory, is mathematically sound and does not need any 
              extra “foundations”.  The difficult questions arise, however, if we try to understand
