                                                8.  SOME  APPLICATIONS
              250
              Using the Bernoulli inequality, we see that it is enough to prove that
                                              2ß~l  < 1 -        2am2~ßm.
                                                           in > N
              The left-hand side is less than 1, and
                                                          2(a-ß)m
                                                       m
              is a converging geometric series, so this inequality is true for large enough N.
                   Let us repeat how the proof goes:  First we choose some ß £ (a, 1), then we note 
              that  the series is converging and choose a suitable N,  then  (for every length) we 
              apply the LL and show that there exists an assignment of this length that satisfies 
              all the restrictions, and finally we use the compactness argument.                         □
                   A direct proof of Theorem 161 (that does not refer to the LL but uses some ideas 
              similar to the proof of the LL) was suggested by An.  Muchnik and A. L. Semenov. 
              This proof goes as follows.  Assume that a set of restrictions is fixed that satisfies 
              the conditions of this theorem.  Let N be the minimal size of restrictions in this set.
                   For each finite set of indices I C N, let us denote by c(J) the number of valid 
              partial assignments,  i.e.,  the number of mappings I —>  {0,1}  that do not violate 
              any  restrictions.  (Here  we  consider  only  restrictions  {F,X)  where  F  с  I.  Our 
              mapping is defined only on  /,  and we cannot  check the restrictions that  involve 
              variables outside I.)  For empty I we let c(I) = 1.
                  Fix some ß £ (a, 1).  Let us prove that c(I) is multiplied by at least 2ß when 
              we add a new point to I.  (We assume that N is large enough.)  This implies that 
              c(J)  ^ 2ßk if I contains к variables.  In particular, c(J) > 0 (this is what we really 
              need, but for induction purposes we use a stronger statement).
                  Imagine that we add to I a new point  (^variable, index) i, and Г — I U {?’}. 
              Every good assignment for I creates two assignments for I' (the new variable may 
              have  two  values),  but  not  all  of these  2c(I)  assignments  for  I'  are  good,  so  we 
              need  to  subtract  the  number  of assignments  that  violate the  restrictions.  Since 
              the /-assignment was good, the violated restriction should contain i in addition to 
              some other points in I.  Fix some restriction,  and let  К  С  I be the set of these 
              other points used in this restriction.  How many assignments do we lose because 
              of this restriction?  Since the variables that are part of the restriction are fixed to 
              make it false,  the number of lost assignments is bounded by the number of good 
              assignments on I\K, and this number is bounded by c(I)/2ßk due to the induction 
              assumption.  (Indeed, if we increase the number of assignments by at least a factor 
              of 2ß when adding a new point, then we decrease the number of assignments by at 
              least the same factor when deleting one of the points.)  Now we need to sum up all 
              the deleted assignments for all Z = N — 1, N,..., I, and for each к there is at most 
              2a'(fc+i)  restrictions that involve i and also к elements in I.
                  In this way we get the bound
                                                             hi    Q(fc+1) C(j)
                                         c(J') £ 2c(J) -    E 2 2ßk ■
                                                          k=N-l
