                       HISTORY AND  BIBLIOGRAPHY      489
       entropy for the family of prefix description languages.  A set E is a prefix description 
        language if E is enumerable and the following condition holds:
                ((xi,yi) e E & (x2,y2) G E & (xi « x2)) => (yi = y2).
          Note also that the term  “complexity”  is normally used for what we call  “en­
       tropy”  (i.e., complexity with respect to an optimal description language).
          Unpredictable sequences (as defined above) appeared (spring 1991) in the joint 
       talk  “Randomness and Lawlessness”  given by Andrei Muchnik,  Alexey Semenov, 
       and Vladimir Uspensky at the conference in California devoted to the foundations 
       of randomness  (March 4-7,  Institute for Mathematical Studies in the Social Sci­
       ences, Stanford University).  The paper [5] published in 1998 is based on that talk, 
       and  it  contained  the  results  about  relations  between  unpredictability  and  other 
       randomness notions.30
          Note  that  the  definition  of unpredictability  given  in  the  present  exposition 
       slightly differs from the definition in [5].  Namely, in [5] the bet was called valid if 
       a weaker inequality v(k)  ^  V(k — 1) holds, while we require the strict inequality 
       v(k)  <  V(k —  1).  Both  definitions  are  equivalent  (i.e.,  lead  to  the  same  class 
       of unpredictable sequences),  but  still our current  definition looks somehow more 
       thoughtful.  There  are  two  reasons  to  prefer  the  new  version.  First,  the  game 
       looks more natural:  if Player bets all her capital and makes a wrong guess,  then 
       no money is left and the rest of the game is trivial  (only zero bets are possible). 
       Second, we need strict inequality to make the game realistic from the algorithmic 
       viewpoint for arbitrarily computable measures (only computable-rational measures 
       were considered in [5]).  Indeed, before a bet is made, Player should check that the 
       bet  is  valid.  She  can check the strict  inequality v(k)  <  V(k — 1)  before making 
       the bet (checking algorithm terminates and confirms the inequality if it holds, and 
       does not terminate otherwise), but one cannot construct a similar algorithm for the 
       inequality v(k) ^ V(k — 1) and the arbitrary computable measure.
          The game approach to randomness was mentioned already by von Mises who 
       spoke about the non-existence of a winning strategy (without formal definitions) 
       when playing against Casino.  Later several formal definitions were suggested, but 
       the version from [5]  (with a cosmetic change mentioned above) seems to be more 
       adequate.  Indeed, in the previous versions either the computability requirement for 
       the strategy was replaced by a requirement of another kind (still of an algorithmic 
       nature, but less natural) or the resulting class of sequences was known to be different 
       from the class of chaotic-typical sequences.  For the definition from [5] there is still 
       some hope that it is equivalent to chaoticness and typicalness;  if it is indeed the 
       case,  this equivalence will be another reason to believe that this class  (of chaotic- 
       typical sequences)  is  a good  approximation for our intuitive  notion of a random 
       sequence.
          30For the case when the bets are made from left to right, as the sequence terms appears, the 
       game approach to randomness and the corresponding notion of a martingale was introduced in 
       the 1930s by Jean Ville [206] as an alternative to von Mises’ approach.
