                                    10.13.  NON-SHANNON  INEQUALITIES                      345
                P r o o f.  Consider a three-dimensional table for the joint probability distribu­
            tion of a, ß,7.  Our assumption says that every two-dimensional section of this table 
            (some coordinate is fixed) has rank 1 (if it has rank 0, then the corresponding value 
            appears with probability zero and can be eliminated).
                First  let  us  assume  that  all  the  elements  in  the  three-dimensional  table  are 
            positive;  it this case the three variables a, /5,7 are independent.  Indeed,  consider 
            all one-dimensional sections that are parallel to the first coordinate, and fill a two- 
            dimensional table (indexed by other coordinates) with these vectors.  All the vec­
            tors  are  non-zero  (and  even  have  all  non-zero  coordinates),  and  the  assumption 
            guarantees that  they are proportional in each row and each column of this two- 
            dimensional table.  So all the vectors are proportional, therefore all the orthogonal 
            two-dimensional sections are proportional.  By the assumption, these section have 
            rank 1, and this finishes the proof for the case of an everywhere positive table.
                Now consider the general case.  In this case we will show that the table has 
            a  block  diagonal  structure,  i.e.,  it  may  be  split  into  blocks,  where  each  block  is 
            a  combinatorial  parallelepiped  (product  of three  sets  of indices),  projections  of 
            different blocks onto the coordinate axes are disjoint, and the table has zeros outside 
            the blocks (and positive values inside all blocks).
                We can apply the above-mentioned argument to each block to get independence 
            inside each block.  This finishes the proof,  since we can use the block number as 
            £;  the variable £ is a function of each of the variables a, ß,7, and when £ is given 
            (=the block is fixed), variables a ,/5,7 become independent.
                So it remains to prove the block diagonal property.  Consider the set of positions 
            that contain strictly positive elements.  This set has the following property:  If two 
            opposite corners of a rectangle (parallel to the axes) contain positive elements,  then 
            the two other comers contain positive elements.  (Otherwise, the determinant of the 
            corresponding 2x2 matrix is not zero, and the rank is greater than 1.)  Now, using 
            this property,  let us find bigger and bigger blocks in the table.  We start with an 
            one-element block.  At each step we look at whether there exists a positive element 
            in a place that falls into the block along at least one coordinate.  If yes, it is easy 
            to see (using the property above) that the block can be extended into a bigger one 
            with all non-zero elements.  In this way we get a maximal block that is separated 
            from other non-zero elements along each coordinate, and we then apply the same 
            argument to the rest of the table.                                             □
                 302 Provide the missing details for this argument.
                 303 (a)  Prove  the  following  statement  (it  is  sometimes  called  the  double 
            Markov property lemma):  if I(ß : 7 1 a) = 0 and I (a: 7 1 ß) = 0, there exists a random 
            variable £ such that H(£\a) — 0, H(£ \ß) — 0, and I((a,ß): 7 ^) = 0.
                (b) Derive Theorem 219 from this statement.
                (Hint for (b):  For Theorem 219 one can use the same variable £ as in (a).  One 
            can prove that the variables a and 7 are independent when £ is known using the 
            independence of the pair aß and 7.  (A similar argument shows that ß and 7 are 
            independent when £ is known.)  In addition, we know that a and ß are independent 
            when £ is known.  One can derive from this that a and ß are independent when £ 
            is known and that £ is a function of 7.  How can we do this?  For the first claim, 
            draw a diagram with three variables aß,  7,  and £  and  look  at  the  regions  that 
            contain zeros.  This diagram shows that the mutual information between £ and aß
