        262     9.  FREQUENCY AND  GAME APPROACHES TO RANDOMNESS
        sequences is a bit strange).  But even then one should say exactly what property 
        we have in mind.
          The problem is with the selection rules:  We did not say what kind of selections 
        are allowed.  Mises gave only some examples of admissible selection rules (we gave 
        three examples of this type),  and  noted that  the decision to  select  (or do  not 
        select)  some wn should not depend on the value of cjn  itself;  otherwise,  we can 
        select a subsequence of zeros (or ones) only from every sequence, and this violates 
        the frequency stability property.
          Trying to make Mises’  ideas precise,  one can give different  formal definitions 
        of admissible selection rules and can therefore get different notions of Kollektivs. 
        After some version is chosen, one can ask whether Kollektivs exist.  This question 
        is  a  mathematical  one,  while the  question  of whether  coin  tossing really gives  a 
        Kollektiv belongs to natural sciences or philosophy (and can be put aside).
          For simplicity we restrict ourselves to the case of a symmetric coin  (p = 1/2) 
        unless the opposite is not said explicitly.  To simplify the statement, let us define 
        a  balanced sequence of zeros and ones as a sequence where the frequency of ones 
        (and, therefore, the frequency of zeros) has limit  1/2.
                     9.2.  Set of strings as selection rules
          The first (and, probably, the most natural) interpretation of Mises’ ideas of an 
        admissible selection  rule  is the following one.  We decide whether to select some 
        term ojn  looking at  all the preceding terms,  i.e.,  coocoi • • -wn-i-  So an admissible 
        selection rule is a function that maps all binary strings ujq - ■ ■ ojn-i to a two-element 
        set {select, do not select}.  In other words, a selection rule is a set R of binary strings 
        (corresponding to the value select).
          Formally speaking, for every set R of binary strings we define a selection rule as 
        a mapping Sr that maps an infinite binary sequence ш € ft into a (finite or infinite) 
        subsequence Sr(co). Namely, Sr(co) consists of terms шп such that ujq • • -wn-i G R. 
        (The order of terms is the same as in the original sequence.)
          We give an example:  If R consists of strings whose lengths belong to some set 
        {no, ni, • • •}  (where no <n\ < ■ • •  is an increasing sequence of integers), then Sr{uj) 
        is шПоШщ • • •  (note that the length of xo • • • z/c-i  is k).  We give another example: 
        The rule  “select terms that follow ones”  corresponds to the set R which contains 
        all strings with last bit  1.
          Assume that we fix some R and then go to a casino where a sequence w of zeros 
        and ones is generated by tossing a fair coin.  Then we get some subsequence Sr (co). 
        (In other words,  we use R to decide when to make bets).  It is natural to expect 
        that this selection does not give us any advantage, and the limit frequency of ones 
        in the subsequence is still 1/2.  There is an important point, however:  We assume 
        that we have chosen R before we came to the casino.  After the game it is easy to 
        find a rule R that would win if it were used in the game.  In other words, we make 
        the following (obvious) observation:  For every sequence to there exists a set R such 
        that Sr(co) consists only of zeros or consists only of ones,  and therefore Sr (uj) is 
        not balanced.  So we cannot define the Kollektiv as a sequence и such that Sr(co) 
        is balanced for all R.  With this definition there are no Kollektivs at all.
          However, as Wald noted in [217], for every countable family of selection rules 
        SRj  (that  corresponds  to  a countable  family  of sets  Ri)  there  exists  a sequence
