                                                 FACE TWO:  CHAOTICNESS                                       473
                    Kolmogorov not only gave a definition of algorithmic entropy, but also realized 
               its  connection  with  randomness.  He  observed  that  for  a  random  sequence  the 
               entropy of its n-bit prefix grows fast as n tends to infinity.  Notice that a random 
               sequence can start with, say, a million zeros, and the entropy of this prefix is very 
               low, but asymptotically it still grows fast.
                    When speaking about prefixes of binary sequences, we use binary strings (such 
               as  (I),  (II),  (III),  (IV))  as  objects  whose  complexity is  measured.  So  we  assume 
               that Y = E in the sequel.
                    If a description language contains a pair  (2,2),  this  means that  2  is  its own 
               description.  Consider a description language D that consists of all such pairs; this 
               D can be called a diagonal language (as mathematicians would say); linguists could 
               call  it  an  antonymous  description language.  Evidently,  Comply)  =  \y\.  Let us 
               consider only language families that include D (the family of monotone description 
               languages defined in the sequel, has this property).  Then for every entropy function 
               К for this family there exists some c such that
                                                       K(v) < \y\+c
               for  all  y.  So,  up to  an  additive  constant,  the  maximal possible value of entropy 
               for an n-bit string is n.  Kolmogorov conjectured that for a random sequence this 
               upper bound for its 71-bit prefixes is tight  (again up to a constant).  This is how 
               Kolmogorov interpreted the chaoticness property.
                    So let us fix some language family (that contains an optimal language), and let 
               К be one of the corresponding entropy functions.  A sequence
                                                      t t l   ■>  & 2  5  •  •  •  1  O '111  •  •  •
               is then called chaotic if there exists a constant c such that
                                                 K(ai, a2,.. •, an) > n -  c
               for all n.  Evidently, this definition does not depend on the choice of specific entropy 
               function in the family, but may depend on the choice of the family.
                   It turned out that for some natural language family the notion of chaoticness 
               defined in this way gives a reasonable formalization of the intuitive idea of random­
               ness.
                   In Kolmogorov complexity theory the relations between descriptions and ob­
              jects have an algorithmic nature.  Following Kolmogorov, we restrict ourselves to 
               enumerable12 sets.  The notion of an enumerable set is one of the main notions in 
              the theory of computability (and in mathematics in general).  It can be explained 
               intuitively in the following way.  Imagine a printing device that prints binary strings 
              sequentially;  printed strings are separated by spaces.  The time intervals between 
              printing consecutive strings may be arbitrary  (but each string should be printed 
              completely without delays, and infinite sequences of bits are not allowed).  It may 
              happen that  the  device hangs  (and  does  not  print  anything)  after  finitely  many 
              strings  have been printed,  then the set  of strings  printed by the device is finite. 
              In  particular,  the  device  may  print  nothing  at  all,  then we  get  an  empty set  of 
              output strings.  For such a device, the set of all printed strings is enumerable—and 
              every enumerable set can be obtained in this way, if the device is equipped with a
                   12What we call  enumerable is usually called  computably enumerable, or recursively enumer­
               able.  The word enumerable usually refers to countable sets.  In our exposition,  we use the term 
               enumerable sets to refer to computably enumerable sets; see footnote 13 below.
