                                                                 4.2.   MAXIMAL SEMIMEASURES                                                             79
                           The total length of used intervals does not exceed 1, as p(i, n) ^ Pi and YjPi ^ 1- 
                    Thus we will always be able to allocate the space we needed (at the left of the free 
                    space).
                           In parallel, the probabilistic machine tosses a coin, obtaining a random bit bn on 
                    step n.  It halts on step n and outputs i if it is known for sure that ß = O.&0&1&2 • • • 
                    belongs  to  (the  interior  of)  the  space  allocated  to  i,  i.e.,  if  the  closed  interval 
                    consisting  of  all  real  numbers  whose  binary  expansion  starts  with  bob\ • • • bn  is 
                    included in the interior of the space allocated to i.  (The interior of the segment 
                    [■и, v) is the interval (u, v).)  By construction, for all i the measure of this set (interior 
                    of the space allocated to г) equals pi.                                                                                              □
                           Any sequence pi satisfying the conditions of the previous theorem is called a 
                    lower semicomputable semimeasure (or enumerable from below semimeasure) on N. 
                    Sometimes we will use also the notation p(i) for p{.  We thus have two alternative 
                    definitions of a lower semicomputable semimeasure:  (1) a probability distribution 
                    generated by a randomized algorithm; (2) a lower semicomputable sequence of non­
                    negative reals whose sum does not exceed 1.  The above theorem states that these 
                    definitions are equivalent.
                          The word “semimeasure” may look strange, but unfortunately there is no other 
                    appropriate term in the literature.  Dropping the semicomputability requirement, 
                    one  can  call  any  function  i                     pi  with  YhiVi  ^  1  a  semimeasure  on  N.  Every 
                    semimeasure on N defines a probability distribution on the set N U {_L} where X is 
                    a special symbol meaning  “undefined”.  The probability of the number г is pi and 
                    the probability of X is 1 — YhiVi-  In the sequel we consider lower semicomputable 
                    semimeasures only (unless explicitly stated otherwise).
                          We have considered so far (lower semicomputable) semimeasures on the natural 
                    numbers.  The definition of a lower semicomputable semimeasure can be naturally 
                    generalized to the case of binary strings or any other constructive objects in place 
                    of natural numbers.  For example,  to define a notion of a lower semicomputable 
                    semimeasure on the set of binary strings, we have to consider probabilistic machines 
                    whose output is a binary string.
                          Important remark:  We will consider in Chapter 5 a notion of a semimeasure 
                    on the space consisting of all finite and infinite 0-1 sequences.  Such a semimeasure 
                    is generated by a probabilistic machine that prints its output bit by bit and never 
                    indicates that the output string is finished.  In particular the machine never halts. 
                    It leads to a different notion:  all the machines considered in this section are required 
                    to halt after printing the output; for such machines, there is no essential difference 
                    between printing a binary string and a natural number.
                          To stress the difference between these two frameworks, semimeasures defined in 
                    this section are called discrete semimeasures while the ones considered in Section 5 
                    are called continuous semimeasures, or semimeasures on the binary tree.
                                                             4.2.  Maximal semimeasures
                          Comparing two semimeasures on N,  we will ignore multiplicative constants. 
                    A lower semicomputable semimeasure m is called  maximal if for any other lower 
                    semicomputable semimeasure m' the inequality m'(i) < cm(i) holds for some c and 
                    for all i.  (The name greatest (instead of “maximal”) would be more accurate since 
                    we look for the greatest  element  of some partially ordered set,  not  the maximal 
                    one.)
