              272            9.  FREQUENCY  AND  GAME APPROACHES TO  RANDOMNESS
              expected return of at most 1  (since the game is fair), so that the probability that 
              we achieve к or more is at most l/к.
                   To make this argument formal, consider the corresponding measures.  Assume 
              that m(x) is u(Qx)//j,(Ctx) for some measure v (and p is the uniform measure).  We 
              consider vertices (strings) x such that the ^-measure of cone Гlx is к (or more) times 
              bigger than the /^-measure of the same cone.  Now consider only the minimal strings 
              x with this property (this does not change the union of Qx).  They correspond to 
              disjoint  cones.  The total /^-measure of these cones is  к  times smaller than their 
              total    measure (or even smaller), and the latter is at most 1.                            □
                    264 Prove that for a lower semicomputable martingale m the function
                                                    t(u))  =  sup m(x)
              is a probability-bounded randomness test in the sense of Section 3.5.
                   We have seen that the set where the martingale wins a lot has small measure. 
              The reverse statement is also true:  for every set S of small measure, there exists a 
              strategy (martingale) that wins a lot on every sequence in S.
                   Theorem 176.  Let U c Q  be an open set of measure e > 0.  Then there exists 
              a martingale m with the following property:  Each sequence id €  U  has  a prefix x 
              where m(x) ^ l/e.
                   PROOF.  Consider a measure v such that v(X) = p(X П U)/e.  (This measure 
              is  zero  outside  [/,  and it  is  (l/e)  times the uniform measure inside U.)  Then the 
              function m(x) — u(Qx) / p(Qx) is a martingale with the required properties.  Indeed, 
              if id Ell, there exists a prefix ж of id such that Qx CU and m{x) = l/e.                    □
                  This  theorem  can  be  explained  as  follows.  Imagine  the there  are  dishonest 
              people in the casino’s management who are ready to sell some “insider information”. 
              Namely, they specify some open set U and guarantee that the sequence of future coin 
              tossing (due to cheating) is in U.  What is the  “market value”  of this information 
              (together with the option to start the game with initial capital  1  in the casino)? 
              Our theorem says that it is l/p(U).  For example, if the insiders tell us (in advance) 
              the first N bits, the corresponding open set has measure 1/2N, and indeed we can 
              win 2N  by betting all the money on the known outcome for N first games.  The 
              same is true for more complicated types of cheating.  For example, if the insiders tell 
              us that some outcome is not possible (“In our casino we never have N consecutive 
              zeros after opening”), this is still something valuable (this information allows the 
              gambler to make 2N/(2N — 1) dollars out of 1).
                  The proof of the theorem also can be explained easily in these terms.  If at the 
              first step the set U is split between По and Hi proportional to ao : a\, we split our 
              money in the same proportion.  (For example, if all elements of U start with 0, we 
              bet all the money on 0.)  Then the ratio
                                                    current capital
                           the fraction of U among the extensions of current situation
              does not change during the game.  Initially the numerator is 1 and the denominator 
              is £  (or even less).  When we bump into U (and this will surely happen, unless the 
              insiders  sold us  false  information),  the  denominator  is  1,  so the numerator is  at 
              least  l/e.
