         296      9.  FREQUENCY AND GAME APPROACHES TO RANDOMNESS
         complexity per letter is at most a.  We know that the zth piece of из (we denote it 
         by U3i  in the sequel)  is in Aj,  and we can enumerate A* given i.  (The problem is 
         that we cannot compute Ai as a list of strings.)
            Let ti be the number of steps of the enumeration of Ai that are needed for w* 
         to appear.  Let us group the values of i into pairs and compare the values £2™ and 
         t2m+i-  Trivially, either £2™ ^ ^2m+i or £2m+i ^ t2m (or both).  How does this help? 
         We can now construct two strategies:  One reads U32m not making any bets, then 
         waits until U32m appears in A2m, thus finding t2m, and then makes the same number 
         of steps enumerating A2m+i  and uses the discovered part of A2m+i to construct a 
         gambling strategy (in the hope that u>2m+i is already discovered).  This works only 
         if t2m  ^ ^2m+i) otherwise we may lose all bets.  But then the symmetric strategy 
         (the one that reads U32m+i)  waits until uj2m+i  appears  in A2m+i  and makes the 
         same number of steps enumerating A2m will win.
            So for every sufficiently large m we have a pair of strategies (that makes bets 
         in  [—1,1])  and we  know that  at  least one of them is successful  (it wins  at least 
         l — o: per bet).  Omitting small m, we can combine them into two strategies in the 
         infinite game.  One of them is monotone, and we may (as we did in Theorem 170) 
         approximate it by an average of finitely many selection rules.  The number of the 
         selection rules depends on the required precision;  we need the error to  be small 
         compared to  1 — a,  and this can be achieved by a fixed  (=not depending on m) 
         number of Church admissible selection rules.  We denote this number by N.  The 
         other strategy is not monotonie,  and we get N Kolmogorov-Loveland admissible 
         selection rules.  In total we get 2N selection rules.
           Recall that Щ-\/щ is small; we note that the frequency deviation for some m 
         cannot be compensated by any behavior for previous m.  So for each m at least 
         one of 2N selection rules leads to a significant deviation.  Therefore,  there exists 
         one rule that leads to a significant deviation for infinitely many m,  and из is not 
         Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random.
           Theorem 193 is proven,                               □
           Together with Theorem 189 we get the following corollary:
           Theorem  195.  There  exist Mises-Church-Daley random sequences  that  are 
         not Mises-Kolmogorov-Loveland random.
           There is a natural question related to Theorem 193:  Is there some finite coun­
         terpart for this result?  Assume that we know that the complexity of some (finite) 
         string X is small.  Is there a non-monotonic selection rule of small complexity that 
         selects from x some unbalanced sequence?  Of course, the exact statement of this 
         type should include several parameters:  the length n of the strings, its randomness 
         deficiency d, the complexity of the selection rule (with n as a condition), and the 
         required imbalance in the selected subsequence.  In [53] the following result in this 
         direction is proven:  There exists a selection rule of complexity 0(\og(n/d))  (with 
        n as a condition)  that selects a subsequence where the number of ones and zeros 
        differ at least by Q(n/ log(n/d)).  In particular, if the randomness deficiency is pro­
        portional to n  (as in Theorem  193),  then the complexity of the selection rule is 
        bounded, and the imbalance is proportional to the length.
