                               8.2.  MOVING  INFORMATION  ALONG  THE TAPE                235
                                    X
                                            и                             и
                                    n                    n/2
                                Figure 24.  Buffer zone for duplication
            Here we multiply the length  l(S)  of the crossing sequence by logm since S  is  a 
            string in an m-letter alphabet and each letter carries logm bits.  To add b' and t' 
            in a self-delimiting encoding, we need at most 2log 6 + 2logt bits.  We may assume 
            that t > 6, otherwise R(t) is empty since the head never visited R.  The constant c 
            appears when we switch to the optimal decompressor.
                This inequality is true for any contents of L and for any placement of the border. 
            Now if for the given contents of L we consider the shortest crossing sequence, the 
            length of this sequence is less than t/b (there is 6+1 possible positions of the border, 
            and at each step only one of the positions is crossed, so the sum of the lengths of 
            crossing sequences does not exceed t).  In this way we get the inequality stated by 
            the theorem.                                                                 □
                 242 Show that this bound can be improved by replacing 6 in the denominator
            by 26.
                (Hint:  The return trips need almost the same time (the difference is at most
            6).)
                The quadratic lower bound for the duplication of an n-bit string immediately 
            follows.
                Assume that a one-tape Turing machine M duplicates its input:  If initially the 
            tape contains a binary string x (followed by blanks), at the end of the computation 
            the tape has a second copy of x (i.e., it contains xx).
                Theorem 153.  There exists a constant e > 0 such that for every n there exists 
            an n-bit string that requires at least en2  steps to duplicate it.
                P r o o f.  For  simplicity  let  us  assume  that  n  is  even,  and  let  x  be  a  string 
            whose second half и has complexity close to its length  (i.e., to nf2).  Then apply 
            the inequality we have proven considering the zone of size nj2 on the right of x as 
            the buffer (Figure 24).
                Assume that duplication takes t steps.  Then the complexity of R zone after t 
            steps  (which is at least n/2) does not exceed t logm/6 + 4 logt + c, where 6 is the 
            size of the buffer zone, i.e., n/2.  Therefore,
                                        n   t log m 
                                        2                g
            We may assume without loss of generality that t < n2  (otherwise the statement is 
            trivial).  Then we replace 4logt by 81ogn and conclude that
                                           4 log m — O(nlogn);
