              122                            5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
              the event  “output  starts  with  x”,  which  is p(x),  but  also  a lower  bound for the 
              probability of the event “the output is exactly x”, which is p(x) —p(x0) —p{x 1).  So 
              not only a(x), but also a(x) — a(x0) — a(xl) is maximal for the universal machine 
              we constructed.
                   124 Prove that all these arguments can be applied to the case of algorithms 
              that send natural numbers (not bits) to the output one at a time.  These algorithms 
              correspond  to  lower  semicomputable  semimeasures  on  the  set  of all  (finite  and 
              infinite) sequences of natural numbers.
                   125  (Continued) Let m be the maximal lower semicomputable semimeasure 
              on the set of all  finite and  infinite sequences of natural  numbers.  Show that  its 
              restriction on the sequences of length  1  coincides  (up to an 0 (1) factor) with the 
              discrete a priori probability on natural numbers (Chapter 4), and its restriction to 
              binary sequences coincides (up to an 0 (1) factor) with the maximal semimeasure 
             provided by Theorem 78.
                   126 Show that a(Onl)  and m(n) differ at  most by an 0 (1)  factor in both 
             directions, where a is the maximal continuous semimeasure from Theorem 78, and 
             m(n) is the a priori probability of integer n as defined in Chapter 4.  (Instead of 
             Onl, one can use arbitrary prefix-free encoding of integers.)
                  (Hint:  See Theorem 79 below.)
                  Let us fix some maximal lower semicomputable semimeasure on the binary tree 
             and denote it by a(x).  It is known as the universal continuous semimeasure.  One 
             can call a(x)  the  continuous  a priori probability  of x,  to  distinguish  it  from the 
              discrete a priori probability defined in Chapter 4.  However, the expression
                                                KA (x) = — log a(x)
             can be called the  a priori  complexity of a string x with no risk of confusion:  the 
             minus logarithm of the discrete a priori probability (Chapter 4) coincides with the 
             prefix complexity and therefore does not  require a special name.  Since different 
             maximal semimeasures differ at most by an 0 (1) factor, the a priori complexity is 
             defined up to an additive 0 (1) term.
                  There is no universally accepted notation for the a priori complexity:  sometimes 
             it is denoted by KM(x).  We use К A (x) for the a priori complexity, reserving KM(x) 
             for monotone complexity as defined later in this chapter.  (When KM(x) is used for 
             the a priori complexity, the monotone complexity is usually denoted by Km(x) or 
             Km(x).)
                  In  the  next  section  we  study  the  properties  of the  a priori  complexity.  Let 
             us note that by definition the a priori complexity need not be an integer (or even 
             rational)  number.  But  this does not  matter much,  since most  of the statements 
             about complexity are true  “up to an 0 (1)  term”,  and we may replace — loga(x) 
             by a minimal integer n such that 2~n < a(x).  An important detail:  we use the 
             strict inequality since we want the resulting function to be lower semicomputable. 
             In the sequel we indicate the rare cases where this rounding (or its absence) can be 
             important.
                               5.3.  A priori complexity and its properties
                  Theorem 79.  (a)  The a priori complexity is monotone:  if x  is a prefix of y, 
             then KA (x) ^ KA (y).
