                                       5.  MONOTONE COMPLEXITY
            150
                (Hint:  The measure of the set of all sequences for which this inequality does 
            not hold for some fixed c, does not exceed 2~c multiplied by the sum of the a priori 
            probabilities of all pairs F, Z, and therefore does not exceed 2~c.)
                (Note that if F is an initial segment of N, then F is determined by w(F) and 
            can be eliminated, so we return to the previous statement.)
                In fact, the condition given by the last problem is also sufficient.  Moreover, it 
            is enough to require this inequality for any increasing computable sequence of finite 
            sets whose union is N.
                 145 Let Fo  C Fi C F2  C  • • •  be a computable sequence of finite sets and
            (J{F{ — N.  Assume that for some sequence u> we have
                                    K{Fi,uj(Fi)) ^   logßFi,u>(Fi) -  c
            for some c and for all i.  Then oj is ML-random with respect to p.
                (Hint :  Using permutation of indices, we may assume that F* are initial segments 
            of N.  Then  we  refer  to  Problem  143:  it  is  enough  to  repeat  the  proof of the 
            Levin-Schnorr theorem using only strings of appropriate lengths and splitting other 
            intervals into unions of appropriate intervals.)
                This statement implies, for example, that a two-dimensional bit sequence (i.e., 
            a mapping Z2  —>  {0,1})  is ML-random with respect to the uniform measure (all 
            bits  are  independent;  0  and  1  are équiprobable)  if and only if an  N x N square 
            centered at the origin has prefix complexity at least N2 — 0(1)  (for all odd N).
                Let us note one more reason that makes the appearance of prefix complexity in 
            the randomness criterion natural.  It turns out that one can prove a quantitative ver­
            sion of the Levin-Schnorr theorem and get a formula for the expectation-bounded 
            randomness deficiency (see Section 3.5):
                 146 Let p(x) = ß{£lx) correspond to a computable measure p on the Cantor 
            space.  Prove that the function
                                                       m{x) 
                                                  X=4U! p{x)  ’
            where the sum is  taken over  all  finite  prefixes  x  of oj  and  m{x)  is  the  discrete 
            a priori probability of x, is a universal expectation-bounded randomness test.
                {Hint-.  A lower semicomputable function on the Cantor space is a sum of char­
            acteristic  functions of intervals with non-negative coefficients.  When a new term 
            is added to this sum (for interval Q.x with coefficient r), we may imagine that the 
            “weight” of the vertex x of the binary tree increases by r.  The weights of all vertices 
            form a lower semicomputable function и on strings, and the expectation condition 
            for a test corresponds to the inequality ^ZXP(X)U(X)  ^  L  The maximal function 
            with this property is m(x)/p(x)  up to a ©(l)-factor.  One should also agree that 
            m(x)/p(x) is infinite if p(x) = 0 for some string x.)
                 147 I Prove  that  the  sum  in  the  preceding problem  can  be replaced by the 
            supremum, and thus we obtain a quantitative version of the Levin-Schnorr theorem 
            with prefix complexity.  For example, for the case of uniform measure, the expecta­
            tion-bounded randomness deficiency is equal to supn[n — K (ojq ■ ■ -uon- 1)].
                {Hint:  A lower semicomputable function that is equal to a inside some effec­
            tively open set and is equal to zero outside it can be represented by means of weights
