                       1.  PLAIN  KOLMOGOROV  COMPLEXITY
        26
           P roof.  The equivalence of (d), (e), (f), and (g) is easy.  Each of the objects (d),
        (e),  (f), and (g) together with n determines the list of all terminating computations 
        of the optimal decompressor D on strings of length at most n.  Indeed,  knowing 
        BB(n), we can run D on all inputs of length at most n for BB(n) steps.  Knowing
        (e), that is, the list of strings of length at most n in the domain of D, we can run 
        D on all those strings until all the computations terminate (and we know that this 
        happens).  Knowing  (f),  the number of strings of length at  most  n on which  D 
        terminates, we run D on all strings of length at most n until the desired number 
        of computations do terminate.  Knowing the string (g), we run D on that string, 
        count the number of steps t, and then run D on all other strings of length at most 
        n for t steps.
          Conversely, the list of all halting computations of the optimal decompressor D 
        on strings of length at most n together with n identifies each of the objects (d)-(g) 
        as well as the objects  (a)-(c).  Therefore, by transitivity  (which is easy to check), 
        all the objects (d)-(g) are equivalent.
          Let us prove now that  (a)-(c) are equivalent to each other and equivalent to
        (d)-(g).  Given the list of strings of complexity at most n, we can find the number 
        of them (so (a)—>(b)) and the largest number of complexity at most n (so (a)—>(c)).
          It is not that easy to find (a) given (b) and n.  Given n and the number of strings 
        of complexity at most n,  we can reconstruct  the list of these strings  (generating 
        them until we obtain the desired number of strings)  and find a maximal number 
        among them ((b)—»(c)).  But we still do not know the Kolmogorov complexity of 
        the generated strings.  We will prove the implication (c)—»(a) indirectly, by showing
        (c)->(d);  we  know already that  (d)  implies  (a).  This will  prove  that  all objects
        (a)-(g) are equivalent.
          The implication (c)—>(d) follows from Theorem 14.  We know that B(n) is an 
        upper bound for BB(n — c)  (for appropriate c).  Thus, given n and B(n), we can 
        find BB (n — c) as follows:  run D on all inputs of length at most n — c within B (n) 
        steps.  Then find BB (n — c) as the number of steps in the longest run.
          It remains for us to consider the objects (h) and (i).  The implication (a)—»(h) 
        is easy.  Indeed, for some constant c the complexity of every string of length n — c 
        does not exceed n.  If we know the list (a) and n, then removing all the strings of 
        length different from n — c from the list, we get (h) for n — c.
          The conversion (h)—>(i) is straightforward.
          Thus it  remains to prove  (i)—>(a).  It is enough to show that,  given the lex­
        icographically first  string 7n  of length n  and  complexity at  least  n,  we  can  find 
        BB(n — 0(1))  or a number  greater  than  BB(n — 0(1)).  This  can  be  done  as 
        follows.
          Given 7n, find n, and for each string x of length n preceding 7n in lexicographi­
        cal order, find a description px of x that has length n or less, and find out the running 
        time tx of D on px.  (Note that px may be not the shortest description of x.)  Let T 
        be the maximum of tx for those x.  We claim that T > BB{n — c) for some c that 
        does not depend on n.  Assume that this inequality is false, that is, T ^ BB(n — c). 
        We will prove that then c is small.  Consider the most time-consuming description 
        an-c of length at most n — c; let n — c — d be its length.  Given an- c and c + d, we 
        can find n and BB (n — c).  From this we can find 7n:  run D on all strings of length 
        at  most n within BB (n — c) steps.  Consider all the strings of length n for which 
        we have found descriptions of length n or less.  Then 7n  is the lexicographically
