                                        5.7.  THE  RANDOM  NUMBER П                          171
                 It  is  also  enough  to  consider  a  finite  union  of intervals  with  this  property. 
             Moreover,  we  may  assume that  this  union  does not  contain  redundant  intervals 
             (that can be deleted without changing the union).  Let us order all the intervals 
             according to their left endpoints:
                                         {lo,r0), (ii,ri), (h,r2),
             where /о  ^  h  ^  h  ^  • • •.  It  is  easy to  see  that  right  endpoints  go  in  the same 
             order (otherwise, one of the intervals would be redundant).  So ro ^ rq < r2 < • • • • 
             Now note that rq  ^  h+2\  otherwise,  the interval  (Zj+i,?q+i)  would be redundant. 
             Therefore, intervals with even numbers (lo,ro), (l2,r2), (/4^ 4), • • ■ are disjoint, and 
             for each of them the length is c/2 times less than the sum of a priori probabilities 
            of rational numbers inside it.  Therefore, the total length of these intervals does not 
            exceed 2/c, since the sum of all priori probabilities is at most  1.  The same is true 
            for intervals with odd numbers, so in total we get the bound 4/c.                 □
                 This statement  raises some natural questions.  How much could  BP(m)  and 
             BP'(m) differ?  This question was answered in [4]  (the maximal difference corre­
            sponds to a logarithmic change in the argument),  but there are many others for 
            which we do not know the answers.  Can we use prefix-stable machines (instead of 
            the prefix-free ones) in the definition of BP in) as the computation time?  Can we 
            derive the last theorem from the version of the Levin-Schnorr theorem with a priori 
            complexity?  Can we use the methods of this section to prove that the real number 
            Ylxzx         is random for every prefix-free set X that contains the domain of an
            optimal prefix-free decompressor?
                 Returning to the “philosophical meaning” of the number Ll, let us note that it 
            can be considered as an “infinite version” of special objects of complexity n that are 
            considered in Theorem 15 (p. 25).  Moreover, there is a direct connection between 
            these notions.
                 Theorem 116.  Let fln  be the binary string formed by first n bits of the binary 
            representation  of Ll.  Then     has  the properties  described  in  Theorem  15  with 
            О (log n) -precision:  each of the objects listed there (say, B(n)) can be algorithmically 
             obtained from f2n+o(iogn)  and vice versa (Q,n can be obtained from B(n + 0(\ogn)).
                 PROOF.  We  already  have  seen  that  given    one  can  construct  an  integer
            t  >  BP(n)  (the  number  of steps  needed  to  exceed  fln).  The  difference  between 
            plain  and  prefix  complexity  (that  could  make  B(n)  greater  than  BP(n))  can  be 
            compensated by an 0(logn)-change in n.
                In the reverse direction, assume that B (n) and n are known.  How do we find 
            ^71-0(l0gn)?  We claim that in the current approximation for fl found after B(n) 
            steps the first n — O(logn) bits are final (i.e., they coincide with the corresponding 
            bits in fl).  If this is not the case, there exists a threshold ß that is a finite binary 
            fraction of length n — O(logn) bits that separates the current approximation and 
            fh  The complexity of ß is at most n — O(logn).  Knowing /3, we can construct a 
            number greater than B(n):  just count the steps needed to get an approximation 
            greater than ß.  For a large enough constant in O(logn), we get a contradiction.  □
                Therefore  we  see  that  knowing  n + O(logn)  bits  in  fl  allows  us  to  answer 
            any  question  about  the  termination  of a program  of size  at  most  n.  Since  the 
            question about the membership in any enumerable set  (e.g.,  questions whether a
