        462       1.  COMPLEXITY  AND  FOUNDATIONS  OF  PROBABILITY
        i.e.,  no  device can operate on  a cycle to receive heat  from a single reservoir  and 
        produce a net amount of work.
          However,  as  Nikita  Markaryan  explained  (personal  communication),  in  this 
        formulation the second law of thermodynamics is a consequence of dynamic laws. 
        Here is  a sketch  of this  argument.  Imagine that  a perpetual motion  machine of 
        the second kind exists.  Assume this machine is attached to a long cylinder that 
        contains warm gas.  Fluctuations of gas pressure provide a heat exchange between 
        gas and machine.  On the other side the machine has a rotating spindle and a rope 
        to lift some weight (due to rotation).
                            gas          machine
                                                t□
          When the machine works,  the gas temperature  (energy)  goes down  and the 
        weight goes up.  This is not enough to call the machine a perpetual motion machine 
        of the second kind  (indeed, it can contain some amount of cold substance to cool' 
        the gas and some spring to lift the weight).  So we assume that the rotation angle 
        (and the height change) can be made arbitrarily large by increasing the amount of 
        the gas and the length of the cylinder.  We also need to specify the initial conditions 
        of the gas;  here the natural requirement is that the machine works (as described) 
        for most initial conditions (according to the natural probability distribution in the 
        gas phase space).
          Why is such a machine impossible? The phase space of the entire system can be 
        considered as a product of two components:  the phase space of the machine itself 
        and the phase space of the gas.  The components interact,  and the total energy 
        is  constant.  Since the machine itself has some fixed number of components,  the 
        dimension of its component (or the number of degrees of freedom in the machine) 
        is negligible compared to the dimension of the gas component (resp. the number of 
        degrees of freedom in the gas).  The phase space of the gas is split into layers corre­
        sponding to different levels of energy; the higher the energy is, the more volume in 
        the phase space is used.  This dependence outweighs the similar dependence for the 
        machine since the gas has many more degrees of freedom.  Since the transformation 
        of the phase space of the entire system is measure-preserving, it is impossible that 
        a trajectory started from a large set with high probability ends in a small set:  the 
        probability of this event does not exceed the ratio of a measures of destination and 
        source sets in the phase space.  So the machine that  (with high probability) cools 
        the gas in a random state and produces mechanical energy (=is a perpetual mobile 
        of the second kind) is impossible.
          This argument is. quite informal and ignores many important points.  For ex­
        ample, the measure on the phase space of the entire system is not exactly a product 
        of measures on the gas and machine coordinates;  the source set of the trajectory 
        can have small measure if the initial state of the machine is fixed with very high 
        precision, etc.  (The latter case does not contradict the laws of thermodynamics:  if
