          480            2.  FOUR ALGORITHMIC FACES OF  RANDOMNESS
             It  is  also  known that  the class of Kolmogorov stochastic sequences is signifi­
          cantly larger than the class of unpredictable sequences:
                                        S + U.
             But the question whether the classes of chaotic (=typical)  and unpredictable 
          sequences coincide, is still open:
                                     CT-U.
             This  is  an  important  problem;  several  people  tried  to  solve  it  but  got  only 
          partial results.
             Strategies  that  avoid  invalid  moves.  Defining  unpredictable  sequences, 
          we may restrict ourselves to strategies that never make invalid moves.  Indeed, we 
          can modify an algorithm A that computes the winning strategy, and get another 
          algorithm В that does not terminate when A attempts to make an invalid move. 
          One has to check whether the move is valid, and this can be done algorithmically: 
          knowing the input for A,  we reconstruct  the history of the game,  including the 
          numbers of bits revealed and the current  capital of Player,  so we can check the 
          validity of the move recommended by A and cancel an invalid attempt.21
                  Generalization for arbitrary computable distributions
             Up to now we considered only the case of uniform distribution on the space 
          fl  of binary sequences;  all the main  ideas  can be illustrated  in this special case. 
          Now, to complete the picture, we consider the general case of arbitrary computable 
          probability distribution on fl.  (See the definition below.)  Let us make some com­
          ments for readers who are not yet familiar with the general notion of a probability 
          distribution {measure).
             We say that a set M is equipped with a measure p if (1) some class of subsets of 
          M is chosen and its elements are called measurable subsets-, (2) for each measurable 
          subset A some number p{A) is chosen and this number is called the measure of A. 
          There are some requirements (axioms of measure theory); we do not go into detail 
          here  and  note  only  that  this  requirement  implies  the  following  fact:  any  finite 
          or countable union of disjoint  measurable subsets is measurable and its measure 
          is  equal  to  the  sum  of the  measures  of the  parts.  For probability  measures,  or 
          probability  distributions,  we  require  also  that  p{M)  =  1.  The  intuitive  meaning 
          of p{A) is the probability of the event  “a randomly chosen element of M belongs 
          to Ä \
             A  measure  on  Q.  is  determined  by  the  measures  of balls.  For  the  uniform 
          distribution (and only for it) we have
                                (VzeE) МПх) = 2"м ).
          It  corresponds  to  the  case where  zeros  and  ones  are  équiprobable  and  trials  are 
          independent.  A slightly more general case is Bernoulli  distribution,  also called a 
          binomial distribution.  Here the trials are also independent,  but  in each trial the 
          probabilities of 1 and 0 are p and 1 —p, respectively.  This number p is a parameter;
             21A  more complicated  argument  shows that  the class  of unpredictable sequences  does  not 
          change if we consider only total computable strategies,  i.e.,  the strategies defined  on  all inputs; 
          see the discussion on p. 310.
