             342           10.  INEQUALITIES  FOR ENTROPY,  COMPLEXITY  AND  SIZE
                  299 Every true linear inequality for dimensions that involves only four sub­
             spaces is a consequence of the basic inequalities and Ingleton’s inequality.
                 (Hint:  As we  have  mentioned,  all  the  extreme rays  for the  cone  defined  by 
             basic inequalities,  except for the special cases mentioned, can be implemented by 
             subspaces, not only by random variables.  Consider the convex cone generated by 
             these  (non-special)  rays.  One can check by  a  (long)  computation that  the faces 
             of this cone are given by basic inequalities and Ingleton’s inequality  (for different 
             orderings of variables).)
                  300 Formulate and prove a similar statement for four finite subgroups of an
             abelian group.
                         10.12.  Conditionally independent random variables
                 We have mentioned several times that Ingleton’s inequality may be false for 
             random variables.  Moreover, in this section we show an example in which the right- 
             hand side of this equality is zero while its left-hand side is positive.  A useful tool 
             here is the notion of conditional independence;  see  [153,  112]  for more advanced 
             applications of this tool.
                 Let a,ß, 7 be three variables defined on the same probability space.  We say 
             that a and ß are independent given 7 if /(a:/3|7) = 0.  It is easy to check that this 
             condition is equivalent to the following statement:  For every value 70 of 7 that has 
             non-zero probability, the conditional distributions of a and ß under the condition 
             7 =  7o  are independent.
                  301  Prove this statement.
                 (Hint:  I(a:ß I7) is an average (taken over all 70 with corresponding probabil­
             ities)  of the mutual information between corresponding conditional distributions.)
                 Abusing slightly the terminology, we say that two random variables a and ß 
             defined on the same probability space are conditionally independent if one can find 
             two other random variables 7 and 6 defined on the same probability space or on 
             its more fine-grained version (where elementary events are split into smaller ones) 
             such that
                    •  7 and 6 are independent;
                    •  a and ß are independent given 7;
                    •  a and ß are independent given 5.
                 We are allowed to split the elementary events in the probability space, so the 
             conditional independence property is now a property of the joint distribution of a 
             and /3, and it does not depend on the space where a and ß are defined.  (As usual, 
             we consider random variables with finitely many values.)
                 The three conditions in this definition mean that three terms in the right-hand 
             side of Ingleton’s inequality are zeros.  It remains to construct  an example where 
             the left-hand side is positive nevertheless:
                 THEOREM  217.  There  exist  conditionally  independent  random  variables  that 
             are not independent.
                 PROOF.  We need to provide an example of a quadruple of random variables 
             a, ß, 7,6 that satisfies the requirements stated in the definition of conditional inde­
             pendence, but where a and ß are dependent.  The following example was suggested 
             by Romashchenko.  Each of the four variables has values 0 and 1.  The variables 7
