             210                     6.  GENERAL  SCHEME FOR COMPLEXITIES
             this property is O'-decidable (we apply the oracle to the algorithm that searches for 
             that n).  So the property r < pk is O'-enumerable.                                     □
                  In fact we use the following general observation:
                   210 Let  rn  be  a  computable  sequence  of  rational  numbers.        Show  that 
             lim inf r  is  a  O'-lower-semicomputable  real  number  and  the  corresponding  0'-
             algorithm can be effectively found given an algorithm for r
                  By the way, the reverse statement is also true:
                   211 Any O'-lower-semicomputable real number is a lim inf of a computable
             sequence of rational numbers.
                  {Hint-.  This  number  is  a supremum of a O'-computable sequence of rational 
             numbers  rn.  Each  rn  is  an  ultimate  value  of a  stabilizing  sequence  rn      Let 
             sk  be the  maximum of ro,fc, ■ ■ •, rt-i,k  where t  is  the minimal  number such that
             rt,k + n,k- !•)
                  It turns out that for an appropriate computable sequence / the function к         pk 
             is  a  maximal  O'-lower-semicomputable  semimeasure.  This  is  a  corollary  of the 
             following result:
                  Theorem  136.  For any O'-lower-semicomputable  sequence qo,qi,...  of non­
             negative reals such that JT qi < 1,  there exists a computable sequence /(0), /  (1),... 
             such that for all к  the lower frequency of к  in the sequence f   is at least qk-
                  This allows us to give an equivalent definition of O'-relativized prefix complexity 
             of A::  it is the negative logarithm of the lower frequency of к in the optimal sequence 
             /   (that gives maximal lower frequencies up to O(l)-factor).
                  P r o o f.  Since  qk  is  lower  semicomputable,  the  set  of pairs  (г, к)  where  r  is 
             a  rational  number  smaller  than  qk  is  O'-enumerable.  As  we  know  from  general 
             computability theory  (see,  e.g.,  [184]),  0' -enumerable sets are  E2-sets,  i.e.,  there 
             exists a decidable property R such that
                                           r < qk    Эи     R(r, к, u, v).
             We use a slightly  different  representation  of E2-predicates:  there  exists  a com­
             putable total function (г, к, n) i-» S(r,k,n) with 0/1-values such that r < qk if and 
             only if the sequence S(r, к, 0), S(r, к, 1) • • ■  has finitely many zeros.  The sequence 
             S(r, к, 0), S(r, к, 1) • • •  can  be  constructed  as  follows.  We  consider  (sequentially) 
             the values и — 0,1, 2,...,  and for each и we search for v such that R(r, k,u,v)  is 
             false.  While searching, we extend the sequence adding zeros.  When v is found, we 
             add 1 to the sequence and switch to the next value of u.  The number of zeros in the 
             constructed sequence is finite if and only if the search was unsuccessful for some -u, 
             i.e.,  if r < qk.
                 It  is  convenient  to  visualize  this  process  as  follows.  From  time  to  time  the 
             request “please make qk greater than r” appears for some к and r (and the previous 
             request  with the same к and r is canceled).  Then we consider the requests that 
             appear and are never canceled later; they correspond to pairs (r, k) such that r < Qk- 
             (The moments when requests appear correspond to zeros in the sequence S.)  This 
             process is computable.  We may also assume without loss of generality that at each 
             given moment there is only finitely many requests.  (This does  not matter since 
             only the limit behavior of the sequence is important.)
