                               CHAPTER 5
                        Monotone complexity
             5.1.  Probabilistic machines and semimeasures on the tree
           Chapter 4 defines a priori probability by using probabilistic algorithms  (ma­
        chines)  that may print some number as their output and then terminate.  In this 
        chapter we consider another type of probabilistic (=randomized) algorithms.  These 
        algorithms output a binary sequence bit by bit and do not necessarily terminate. 
        The output,  therefore,  is  a  random variable whose  values  are  finite  and  infinite 
        sequences of bits  (i.e.,  elements of the set  E  of all finite and infinite sequences of 
        bits).
           Consider the following simple algorithm of this type.  It just sends random bits 
        directly to the output:
                while true do 
                  6:=random;
                  OutputBit(è);
                od
        Its output therefore is a random variable that is uniformly distributed over £1, the 
        set of all infinite binary sequences.
           But  it  is  quite  possible  (for some other algorithm)  that  some finite sequence 
        is  printed  with positive probability.  This happens when  algorithm with positive 
        probability stops  after sending some bits  to  the output  (or runs forever without 
        sending more bits to the output).
           For each algorithm A of the described type we consider a function a that is 
        defined on binary strings and whose values are non-negative reals:
                      a(x) = Pr[the output of A starts with x].
           More formally this function is defined in the following way.  Each probabilistic 
        algorithm defines a mapping A of the set Q (infinite sequences of zeros and ones) 
        into the set E.  Namely, A(co) is a sequence of output bits that appears if we use the 
        terms of the sequence u) as random bits (this means that each statement b := random 
        assigns to b the first unused bit of cj).  For example, if A is the program mentioned 
        above, then Ä(cj) = ш for all w.
           Then a{x) is defined as the measure of the preimage of the set Еж under the 
        mapping À (where Ex is the set of all finite and infinite sequences having prefix x). 
        We say that A generates the distribution a.
           1118 I What are À and a,  if the algorithm A outputs an infinite sequence of 
        zeros (not using random bits at all)?
           A natural question arises:  what is the class of all functions a that correspond 
        to randomized algorithms A of the described type? The next two theorems provide
                                  115
