               468                   2.  FOUR  ALGORITHMIC  FACES  OF  RANDOMNESS
                               Face one:  Frequency stability and stochasticness
                    The idea to define the notion of an individual random sequence goes back to 
               Richard von Mises, a well-known German mathematician; it seems that he was the 
               first  who  tried  to  give  such a definition.  This  happened in  the beginning of the 
               twentieth century, in 1919.  At least it was he who suggested a reasonable approach 
               to this definition (though he did not give a rigorous mathematical one).
                    Von Mises started by requiring frequency stability,  i.e.,  the existence of limit 
               frequency: the fraction of ones among the first n terms should converge (for the case 
               of fair coin) to 1/2 as n tends to infinity.  Of course, this property is not sufficient. 
               For example, this is true for the (definitely non-random) sequence
                                                   0,1,0,1,0,1,0,1,....
               Evidently,  we should  require that  not  only the sequence  itself,  but  also  its  sub­
               sequences satisfy the frequency stability property.  But we cannot expect  all the 
               subsequences to be stable in this sense:  indeed, even a perfectly random sequence 
               has a zero subsequence, we may select just the terms that are equal to zero.  So we 
               have to restrict  ourselves and consider only  “reasonable chosen”,  or  “admissible” 
               subsequences.
                    It  is  nice  to  consider  any  subsequence  of a  given  sequence  as  the  result  of 
               selection procedure applied to the terms of the original sequence:  the subsequence 
               consists just of those terms which are selected.  Any selection procedure is based on 
               some selection rule.  To obtain a reasonable, or admissible, subsequence, one needs 
               to use a reasonable (admissible) selection rule.  For example, a reasonable selection 
               rule may select  all  terms ai  where г  is  a prime  number,  or all  terms that  follow 
               zeros  (i.e.,  all  terms  a^+i  such  that     =  0).  In  this  way we get  two  admissible 
               subsequences.
                   Kolmogorov at some point suggested the name stochastic for a sequence whose 
               admissible subsequences all have the frequency stability property.
                   The scheme suggested by von Mises was rather vague; it was turned to a rig­
              orous definition of randomness when the theory of algorithms was developed.  One 
              of its inventors,  an American mathematician Alonzo Church suggested in 1940 to 
              define the admissible selection rule as algorithms of special type.  The sequences 
              where all Church-admissible subsequences satisfy the frequency stability property 
               are called  Church stochastic sequences.4  This definition, however, looks too broad: 
              for example, there exists a Church stochastic sequence that becomes non-Church- 
              stochastic after a computable permutation of its terms.5
                   In  1963 Kolmogorov modified the definition given by Church and suggested a 
              broader class of admissible selection rules, thus defining a broader (in fact, strictly 
              broader)  class of admissible subsequences.  In particular,  Kolmogorov’s definition 
              does not  require that the selected terms keep the ordering they had in the orig­
              inal  sequence.  A  corresponding class of sequences,  called  Kolmogorov stochastic 
               sequences,6 appears:  they are sequences such that all Kolmogorov-admissible sub- 
              sequences satisfy  the  frequency  stability  property.  By  definition,  this  class  is  a
                   4In the main part of the book they are called M ises-Church random sequences.
                   5See Theorem 203(d), p. 307.
                   6They are called M ises-Kolmogorov  random  sequences  in the main part of the book.  The 
              most standard name used nowadays is Kolmogorov-Loveland stochastic sequences.
