                12.  MULTISOURCE  ALGORITHMIC  INFORMATION THEORY
        380
                Figure 43.  Additional edges that do not help much
       that is (logarithmically) simple given (7, and it maps each of the two strings A and 
       В to C.  (As before,  the program lias some additional part that distinguishes A 
       from B; this part has logarithmic complexity.)
          Note  that  this  statement  remains  non-trivial  even  if we  do  not  require  the 
       program be simple given C:  no other proof even of this weak version is known.  In 
       other words, the problem does not look simpler if we add two additional edges, as 
       shown in Figure 43.
          As before, we can also refine the statement of Theorem 234 for the case when 
       conditional complexities are different:
          Theorem 235.  Let A, B,  and C be strings of complexity at most n,  and-let 
       к ^ I be positive integers such that C(C\ A) ^ к and C(C\B) ^ I.  Then there exists 
       a string X of length к such that C{X\C) = O(logn), C(C\A, X) = O(logn),  and 
       C(C\B,X') = O(logn), where X' is the l-bit prefix of X.
          324 How can one formulate this  statement  in  terms  of some  information
       request?
          (Hint:  X is sent  along an edge of capacity k,  and another edge of capacity I 
       extends the first edge.)
          All these statements are proven by Muchnik [135].  We reproduce the proof of 
       Theorem 235 given in his paper.
          Proof.  We use the same idea:  The string X is one of the (few)  “fingerprints” 
       of C.  However, the argument needs to be changed.  Even for the simple case к = I, 
       we have a problem.  One can find the fingerprint X such that C(C\ A, X) is small, 
       as well as some other fingerprint X' such that C(C\B,X') is small, but we need 
       the same X for both cases.  How can we achieve this?
          We may consider fingerprints X that generate only few collisions both in Sa 
       and Sß  (here Sa  and Sb stand for the set of strings that are simple relative to A 
       and B, respectively).  Indeed those universal fingerprints exist  (most of the right 
       vertices have this property, since Sa U Sb is only twice bigger than each of Sa and 
       Sb)-  The expansion property now guarantees that for most strings in Sa  and for 
       most strings  in  Sb  there  exists  a universal  fingerprint.  But  then  we  run  into  a 
       problem.  We would like to say that the remaining strings have small complexity 
       since  there  are only a few of them,  and we can generate them—but to generate 
       them we need to know both A and B, and we have only one of these two strings as 
       a condition....
          What can we do?  Let us consider A and В separately, but let us require that 
       C has not only one good fingerprint  (neighbor) but that most of the neighbors of
