196

fee

§

Les

Ground plan of the apparatus
Fic. 7

(Taken from K. W. Spence and R. Lippitt,
An experimental test of the sign-gestalt theory
of trial and error learning. J. exper. Psychol,
1946, 36, p. 494, In this article they were de-
scribing another experiment but used the same
maze.)

for seven days, two trials to the right
and two to the left.

In the crucial test the animals were
divided into two subgroups one made
solely hungry and one solely thirsty. It
was then found that on the first trial
the hungry group went at once to the
left, where the food had been, statisti-
cally more frequently than to the right;
and the thirsty group went to the right,
where the water had been, statistically
more frequently than to the left. These
results indicated that under the previ-
ous non-differential and very mild re-
warding conditions of merely being re-
turned to the home cages the animals
had nevertheless been learning where
the water was and where the food was.
In short, they had acquired a cognitive
map to the effect that food was to the
left and water to the right, although
during the acquisition of this map they

Epwarp C, ToLMAN

had not exhibited any stimulus-response
propensities to go more to the side
which became later the side of the ap-
propriate goal.

There have been numerous other la-
tent learning experiments done in the
Berkeley laboratory and elsewhere. In
general, they have for the most part all
confirmed the above sort of findings.

Let us turn now to the second group
of experiments.

(2) “Vicarious Trial and Error” or
“YTE.” The term Vicarious Trial and
Error (abbreviated as VIE) was in-
vented by Prof. Muenzinger at Colo-
rado? to designate the hesitating, look-

“\

Apparatus Used for Testing Discrimination of
Visual Patterns

Fic. 8
(From K,. S, Lashley, The mechanism of
vision. I, A method for rapid analyses of
pattern-vision in the rat. J. genet, Psychol.
1930, 37, p. 454.)

2Vide: K, F. Muenzinger, Vicarious trial
and error at a point of choice: I. A general
survey of its relation to learning efficiency.
J, genet, Psychol., 1938, 53, 75-86.

Cocnitive Mars In Rats anp Men 197

Fic. 9

(From E, C, Tolman, Prediction of vicarious trial and error by means of the schematic sow-

bug. Psycwor. Rev., 1939, 46, p. 319.)

ing-back-and-forth, sort of behavior
which rats can often be observed to in-'
dulge in at a choice-point before actu-'
ally going one way or the other. |

Quite a number of experiments upon
VTEing have been carried out in our
laboratory. I shall report only a few.
In most of them what is called a dis-
crimination set-up has been used. In
one characteristic type of visual dis-
crimination apparatus designed by Lash-
ley (shown in Fig, 8) the animal is put
on a jumping stand and faced with two
doors which differ in same visual prop-
erty say, as here shown, vertical stripes
vs. horizontal stripes.

One of each such pair of visual
stimuli is made always correct and the
other wrong; and the two are inter-
changed from side to side in random
fashion. The animal is required to
learn, say, that the vertically striped
door is always the correct one. If he

jumps to it, the door falls open and he
gets to food on a platform behind. If,
on the other hand, he jumps incorrectly,
he finds the door locked and falls into
a net some two feet below from which
he is picked up and started over again.

Using a similar set-up (see Fig. 9),
but with landing platforms in front of
the doors so that if the rat chose incor-
rectly he could jump back again and
start over, I found that when the choice
was an easy one, say between a white
door and a black door, the animals not
only learned sooner but also did more

VTEing than when the choice was diffi-'

cult, say between a white door and a
gray door (see Fig. 10).
further (see Fig. 11) that the VTEing
began to appear just as (or just before)
the rats began to learn. After the
learning had become established, how-
ever, the VTE’s began to go down.
Further, in a study of individual dif-

It appeared .

