192 Epwarp C, ToLmMan | CocnitiveE Mars tn Rats AnD Men 193
amy Finally, I, personally, would hold fur- changed or variations in the specific
Sa pag f | ther that it is also important. to dis- routes be introduced, this wider map
Waa, eee oe angy non rewered | cover in how far these maps are rela- will allow the animal still to behave
ae ee ety | tivel d strip-like or relatively relatively correctly and to choose the
ie = Sy ie 7, | _ tively narrow and strip-like or relatively y y fc)
20 ee’ ook oie a | broad and comprehensive. Both strip- appropriate new route.
an Gute RN fv bess hungry | | maps and comprehensive-maps may be But let us turn, now, to the actual
; = oe Ye “Ste either correct or incorrect in the sense experiments. The ones, out of many, |
Fs so * that they may (or may not), when acted which I have selected to report are —
g | y Hungry non-rewared upon, lead successfully to the animal’s simply ones which seem especially im-
» | y at goal. The differences between such portant in reinforcing the theoretical
G5 td asa nek Reet strip maps and such comprehensive position I have been presenting. This
Fe = aA maps will appear only when the rat is position, I repeat, contains two assump-
Sita cet Se eS, later presented with some change within tions: First, that learning consists not
. ~~ Pies the given environment. Then, the nar- in stimulus-response connections but in
50 rower and more strip-like the original. the building up in the nervous system of
40 Hungry reward map, the less will it carry over success- sets which function like cognitive maps,
6 | fully to the new problem; whereas, the and second, that such cognitive maps
Las DSL a a a a a a | wider and the more comprehensive it may be usefully characterized as vary-
Dive was, the more adequately it will serve ing from a narrow strip variety to a
: ; in the new set-up. In a strip-map the broader comprehensive variety.
Hison curves for four prauten od ents: | given position of the animal is con- The experiments fall under five
Fic. 3 nected by only a relatively simple and heads: (1) “latent learning,” (2) “vi-
(From E. C. Tolman and C. H. Honzik, Degrees of hunger, reward and non- | single path to the position of the goal. carious trial and error” or “VTE,” (3)
reward, and maze learning in rats. Univ. Calif. Publ. Psychol., 1930, 4, No. | In a comprehensive-map a wider arc of “searching for the stimulus,” (4) “hy-
16, p. 246, A maze identical with the alley maze shown in Fig. 1 was used.) i the environment is represented, so that, potheses’ and (5) “spatial orienta-
| if the starting position of the animal be _ tion.”
time) that, if bad results—‘annoyances,’ patterned and often, pragmatically |
‘negative reinforcements’—follow, then speaking, more autonomous than do the
this same satisfaction-and-annoyance-  stimulus-response psychologists.  Al-
receiving part of the rat will telephone though we admit that the rat is bom-
back and say, “Break that connection barded by stimuli, we hold that his
and don’t you dare use it next time nervous system is surprisingly selective it =
either.” as to which of these stimuli it will let | Di Dig
So much for a brief summary of the in at any given time. 3 >
two subvarieties of the ‘stimulus-re- Secondly, we assert that the central :
sponse,’ or telephone switchboard school. office itself is far more like a map con-
(2) Let us turn now to the second . trol room than it is like an old-fashioned
main school. This group (and I be- telephone exchange. The stimuli, which D
long to them) may be called the field are allowed in, are not connected by H Di vials p!
theorists, We believe that in the course just simple one-to-one switches to the 4
of learning something like a field map outgoing responses, Rather, the incom-
of the environment gets established in ing impulses are usually worked over
the rat’s brain. We agree with the and elaborated in the central control
other school that the rat in running a room into a tentative, cognitive-like os
maze is exposed to stimuli and is finally map of the environment. And it is this “6-Unit Alley T-Maze
led as a result of these stimuli to the tentative map, indicating routes and Fic. 4
i cur. W aths and environmental relationships ‘
ee i been Thich ae determines what ee (From H, C. Blodgett, ‘The effect of the introduction of reward upon
’ ’ i i 1 : the maze performance of rats. Univ. Calif. Publ. Psychol., 1929, 4, No, 8,
processes are more complicated, more if any, the animal will finally release. p. 117.)
=
