208 Epwarp C. ToLMaNn

the other members of his own group.
He learns instead to displace his ag-
gressions onto outgroups. Such a dis-
placement of aggression I would claim
is also a narrowing of the cognitive map.
The individual comes no longer to dis-
tinguish the true locus of the cause of
his frustration. The poor Southern
whites, who take it out on the Negroes,
are displacing their aggressions from
the landlords, the southern economic
system, the northern capitalists, or
wherever the true cause of their frus-
tration may lie, onto a mere convenient
outgroup. The physicists on the Fa-
culty who criticize the humanities, or
we psychologists who criticize all the
other departments, or the University as
a whole which criticizes the Secondary
School system or, vice versa, the Sec-
ondary School system which criticizes
the University—or, on a still larger and
far more dangerous scene—we Ameri-
cans who criticize the Russians and the
Russians who criticize us, are also en-
gaging, at least in part, in nothing more
than such irrational displacements of
our aggressions onto outgroups.

I do not mean to imply that there
may not be some true interferences by
the one group with the goals of the
other and hence that the aggressions of
the members of the one group against
the members of the other are neces-

sarily wholly and merely displaced ag-.

pressions. But I do assert that often
and in large part they are such mere
displacements.

Over and over again men are blinded
by too violent motivations and too in-
tense frustrations into blind and unin-
telligent and in the end desperately dan-
gerous hates of outsiders. And the ex-
pression of these their displaced hates
ranges all the way from discrimination
against minorities to world conflagra-
tions.

hy

What in the name of Heaven and
Psychology can we do about it? My
only answer is to preach again the vir-
tues of reason—of, that is, broad cog-
nitive maps. And to suggest that the
child-trainers and the world-planners of
the future can only, if at all, bring
about the presence of the required ra-
tionality (i.e., comprehensive maps) if
they see to it that nobody’s children are
too over-motivated or too frustrated.
Only then can these children learn to
look before and after, learn to see that
there are often round-about and safer
paths to their quite proper goals—learn,
that is, to realize that the well-beings of
White and of Negro, of Catholic and of
Protestant, of Christian and of Jew, of
American and of Russian (and even of
males and females) are mutually inter-
dependent. ;

We dare not let ourselves or others
become so over-emotional, so hungry, so
ill-clad, so over-motivated that only
narrow strip-maps will be developed.
All of us in Europe as well as in Amer-
ica, in the Orient as well as in the Oc-
cident, must be made calm enough and
well-fed enough to be able to develop
truly comprehensive maps, or, as Freud
would have put it, to be able to learn
to live according to the Reality Prin-
ciple rather than according to the too
narrow and too immediate Pleasure
Principle.

We must, in short, subject our chil-
dren and ourselves (as the kindly ex-
perimenter would his rats) to the op-
timal conditions of moderate motiva-
tion and of an absence of unnecessary
frustrations, whenever we put them and
ourselves before that great God-given
maze which is our human world, I
cannot predict whether or not we will
be able, or be allowed, to do this; but
1 can say that, only insofar as we aré
able and are allowed, have we cause for
hope.

THE ROLE OF REWARD IN CONDITIONING THEORY '

BY HOWARD H. KENDLER
New York University

AND

BENTON J. UNDERWOOD
Northwestern University

When Watson (17), in 1915, gave
conditioning a dominant position in his
systematic formulation, he initiated a
trend in theoretical psychology that still
persists. Today, many theoretical sys-
tems which attempt to explain relatively
complex behavior have, as their bases,
principles derived from the data of con-
ditioned response experiments. Because
of the generalized implications of this
field of investigation, it becomes par-
ticularly important to scrutinize care-
fully and persistently the theories of
conditioning.

Hilgard and Marquis (6) have made
a methodological analysis of conditioned
response experiments which points out
a distinction between two types of con-
ditioning procedure, viz., classical and

_instrumental. The main difference be-
tween the two types is that in the for-
mer the occurrence of the conditioned
response exerts no influence upon the
‘presentation of the unconditioned stimu-
lus (reinforcement), while in instru-
mental conditioning the achievement of
the reward is dependent upon the or-
ganism making the appropriate re-
sponse. ‘The latter is often referred to
as selective or trial-and-error learning.

Theorists have disagreed as to

whether or not the procedural dis-

1 The initial draft of this paper was an out-
growth of a seminar in learning theory at the
State University of Iowa, The completion of
the paper was delayed by the military service
of the authors, Appreciation is extended to
Professor Kenneth W. Spence for his valuable
criticism of the initial draft. The responsi-
bility for the paper in its present form is,
however, entirely ours.

tinction between kinds of conditioning
should be mirrored in their attempts to
suggest the basic mechanisms by which
learning takes place in the two situa-
tions. Guthrie (3) and Hull (8) have
insisted that both types of learning are
explainable by the same principle, or
set of principles, while others (12, 13)
have been equally adamant in their as-
sertions that this methodological dis-
tinction reflects two distinct kinds of
conditioning. One of the most provoca-
tive and influential presentations of a
dual theory is the one reported in this
journal several years ago by Maier and
Schneirla (12). It is this formulation
which will be dealt with in the present
paper.

Maier and Schneirla have challenged
the tendency “to break down the theo-
retical distinction between the classical
notion of conditioning and that of se-
lective or ‘trial-and-error’ learning” (12,
p. 117), and have emphasized the ne-
cessity of distinguishing between these
learning situations, not merely in terms
of procedure, but also in terms of the
basic mechanisms of learning which
must be postulated. There are, these
writers maintain, two qualitatively dif-
ferent forms of learning, .They write:

“.,. in the first stege of the conditioning
procedure a neutral stimulus develops ex-
citatory value for a response it did not
control. The essential condition for this
change in the animal is contiguity between
the experience of the neutral stimulus and
the experience of the unconditioned stimu-
lus. Then a second stage may develop.
Once the neutral stimulus has become a

2n0
