554

cortically, not only in the geniculostriate projection but throughout the
entire expanse of prestriate and inferior temporal cortex as far forward
as the temporal pole. With one exception, no other cortical area in the
deafferented hemisphere showed reduced activity.

The evidence that has been cited favors a sequential-activation model
for object vision in which information that reaches the striate cortex is
transmitted for further processing to the prestriate cortex, and from
there to the inferior temporal area. This system appears to be important
for the analysis and coding of the physical dimensions of visual stimuli
needed for their identification and recognition. It is unlikely, however,
that any part of this system up to and including the inferior temporal
area is involved in the still higher-order process of associating visual
stimuli with other events, such as motivational and emotional ones.
Recordings from single cells in monkeys performing visual discrimina-
tion and reversal tasks have shown that although inferior temporal
neurons are sensitive to the physical properties of stimuli, they are rel-
atively insensitive to changes in the reward value of the stimuli (Jarvis
and Mishkin 1977). Similar results have been reported by others (Rolls
et al. 1977; but see Ridley and Ettlinger 1973). Presumably, the process
of attaching reward value to a stimulus depends on stations beyond the
occipitotemporal pathway (Jones and Mishkin 1972; Sunshine and Mish-
kin 1975; Spiegler and Mishkin 1978; Rolls et al. 1979b; Sanghera et al.
1979). However, for object vision, the inferior temporal cortex may well
be the final station. It is significant in this regard that, by virtue of the
extremely large receptive fields of inferior temporal neurons (Gross et
al. 1972), this area provides the neural mechanism of stimulus equiva-
lence across retinal translation (Gross and Mishkin 1977; Seacord et al.
1979)—that is, the ability to recognize a stimulus as the same regardless
of its position in the visual field and, by extrapolation, regardless of its
spatial location. Indeed, a necessary consequence of this equivalence
mechanism is that within the occipitotemporal pathway there is a loss
of information about the spatial locations of objects.

Occipitoparietal Mechanisms in Spatial Perception

The neural mechanism for the analysis of the spatial locations of objects
also entails the transmission of visual information from the striate
through the prestriate area; however, the rest of the pathway for spatial
vision appears to be quite separate from the ventral pathway into the
temporal cortex. Evidence in support of this dichotomy of cortical visual
systems comes from recent studies in our laboratory on the parietal
lobe.

In the initial study of this series, Pohl (1973) demonstrated a dissoci-
ation of visual deficits after inferior temporal and posterior parietal
lesions. Whereas the temporal but not the parietal lesion produced a se-
vere impairment on an object discrimination task, just the reverse was

Ungerleider, Mishkin
