564

Corticocortical Pathways Through Prestriate Cortex

The evidence presented thus far strongly supports the view that neural
mechanisms underlying object and spatial perception depend on the
relay of different kinds of visual information from striate cortex through
prestriate cortex to targets in inferior temporal and posterior parietal
areas, respectively. Despite the abundance of positive evidence, how-
ever, the support has not been unanimous. The results of prestriate-
cortex ablation studies have repeatedly raised serious problems for this
conception of corticocortical pathways. If prestriate cortex were an es-
sential relay in either a striate-temporal or a striate-parietal pathway,
then damage to this relay should yield effects at least as severe as dam-
age to its target areas. Yet, monkeys sustaining extensive bilateral pre-
striate lesions commonly exhibit only mild visual effects. In a few in-
stances in which severe visual deficits did follow prestriate removals
(Keating and Horel 1972; Keating 1975), the removals included the pos-
terior part of inferior temporal cortex (area TEO), damage to which, by
itself, produces severe visual-discrimination impairment (Iwai and
Mishkin 1968). Extensive prestriate-cortex removals that spare this
posterior temporal region, however, have repeatedly failed to yield ap-
preciable effects in either visual discrimination or in spatial orientation
(Lashley 1948; Meyer et al. 1951; Riopelle et al. 1951; Chow 1952; Evarts
1952; Pribram et al. 1969; Ungerleider and Pribram 1977).

Is there a resolution of this paradox? It was suggested by Mishkin
(1966) that failures to obtain severe impairments after extensive pre-
striate-cortex removals simply indicated that spared prestriate rem-
nants continued to serve as effective relays between the striate area and
its rostral targets—that is, that the prestriate cortex was invested with
a high degree of equipotentiality. According to this proposal, only a
complete prestriate lesion would be expected to yield a corticocortical
disconnection. The results of a study by Iwai and Mishkin (Mishkin
1972) provided support for this proposal with regard to occipitotem-
poral transmission. When putatively complete prestriate-cortex lesions
were made in a large group of monkeys, none was able to relearn a
visual pattern discrimination. By contrast, partial prestriate ablations,
irrespective of their location, were nearly without effect. These findings
therefore pointed to the existence of multiple pathways through pre-
striate cortex, any of which can be utilized to convey visual information
out of striate cortex. It seemed that only if all these equivalent pathways
were destroyed would the transmission be completely disrupted and
the anticipated deficit ensue.

Although it has since been found that even the massive removals
of prestriate cortex referred to above did not totally disconnect the
striate-temporal pathway, the conclusion reached remains valid none-
theless. Indeed, it has now been demonstrated that any sparing, no
matter how minimal, of the visual functions of inferior temporal cor-

Ungerleider, Mishkin

