568

Figure 18.11 Schematic representation of results from two anatomical experiments, dem-
onstrating that striate-prestriate-temporal pathways were preserved despite massive pre-
striate removals. In the first experiment, an occipital lobectomy (dots) was performed
more than a year after the initial prestriate removal (stripes). Degeneration from the
lobectomy was found in ventral area TEO and in the floor of the caudal portion of the
superior temporal sulcus. The exact source of these two projections, however, was inde-
terminate (indicated by question mark). In the second experiment, the floor of the
superior sulcus was removed, again more than a year after the initial prestriate lesion.
Degeneration in this case was found in dorsal area TEO. For abbreviations see figure 18.3.
Adapted from Ungerleider et al., in prep.

Clarification of Striate-Prestriate Connections

Early attempts to examine striate-prestriate connections (von Bonin et
al. 1942; Bailey et al. 1944) employed the method of strychnine
neuronography, described above. Although the map of striate projec-
tions obtained with this method has been confirmed by more recent
work using degeneration (Kuypers et al. 1965; Cragg and Ainsworth
1969; Zeki 1969, 1971a; Jones and Powell 1970) and autoradiographic
(Zeki 1976) and horseradish-peroxidase (Lund et al. 1975) tracing tech-
niques, all these methods, both old and new, have been used to define
projections primarily from lateral striate cortex, the part of striate cortex
representing central vision. Surprisingly, there has been almost no in-
formation regarding the projections from posterior and medial striate
cortex, the parts representing peripheral and far-peripheral vision. In-
deed, it was undoubtedly the near absence of information about the
location of the prestriate tissue serving noncentral vision that accounted
for the repeated failure, recounted above, to completely disconnect the
higher-order visual areas from their striate input. We therefore under-
took a study of the cortical efferents from all parts of striate cortex, with
the aim of defining the locus, extent, and topographic organization of
the entire striate-prestriate projection system.

To delineate the entire map of striate projections to prestriate cortex,
one series of monkeys was prepared with partial striate lesions such
that, collectively, they included all of area 17 with little or no invasion of
area 18. The brains were then processed by the Fink-Heimer (1967) pro-
cedure for silver staining of degenerating axon terminals. Reconstruc-
tions of the lesions in three of the five cases from this series are shown

Ungerleider, Mishkin

