560

inputs to this cortex, which appear to be unnecessary when corticocor-
tical connections are intact, also play no significant role in the recovery
after corticocortical disconnection. By contrast, removal of prestriate
cortex ipsilateral to the intact striate cortex produced a marked impair-
ment on the task. Taken together, the results of this serial-lesion ex-
periment demonstrate that the visual spatial functions of posterior
parietal cortex depend on inputs from striate cortex and that such inputs
are transmitted across corticocortical pathways. In this regard, it is sig-
nificant that the only cortical area apart from those along the oc-
cipitotemporal pathway to show differential glucose utilization in the
2-DG experiments described earlier (Jarvis et al. 1978; Kennedy et al.
1978) was located within the posterior parietal region. The affected area
extended forward from the dorsal prestriate cortex to include the poste-
rior half of the inferior parietal gyrus, both on its crown and on the
ventral bank of the intraparietal sulcus.

The Two Cortical Visual Systems Compared

These results on striate-parietal interaction parallel the earlier finding
that corticocortical inputs from striate cortex are crucial for the visual
recognition functions of inferior temporal cortex. But, though the re-
sults of these two studies are analogous, one important difference
emerges (see figure 18.6). On the pattern-discrimination task of the ear-
lier study, only a moderate effect followed the striate lesion, and a se-
vere deficit did not result until the callosal transection. By contrast, on
the landmark task, the relative effects of the striate and callosal lesions
were reversed; that is, the striate-cortex lesion produced the more se-
vere effect. These data suggest that the posterior parietal cortex, like the
inferior temporal, depends heavily on corticocortical inputs from striate
cortex for its visual function, but that, unlike the inferior temporal, the
posterior parietal cortex in a given hemisphere does not seem to receive
a heavy input via the corpus callosum from striate-cortex neurons rep-
resenting the ipsilateral visual field. Thus, each posterior parietal area
may be organized largely as a substrate for contralateral spatial func-
tion, and this could account in part for the symptom of contralateral
neglect that has so often been reported after unilateral injury to the
parietal lobe in man (see, for example, Denny-Brown and Chambers
1958).

A second important difference in the organization of visual inputs to
the two systems was uncovered in an experiment comparing the be-
havioral effects of selective striate-cortex removals. In this experiment,
monkeys received bilateral lesions of the striate area representing either
central vision (lateral striate) or peripheral vision (medial striate). The
lateral lesion included the entire lateral surface of striate cortex, and the
medial lesion included the calcarine fissure as well as both banks of its
ascending and descending limbs (figure 18.7). The monkeys were tested

Ungerleider, Mishkin
