575

Figure 18.17 Location, extent, and topographic organization of striate projections (@: lateral; A: posterior;
M: medial) to cortex in the superior temporal sulcus. The drawings are composites based on both degenera-
tion and autoradiographic material. Shaded area represents locus of projection on lateral view. All areas of
striate cortex project to a restricted region inside the caudal portion of the superior temporal sulcus, its A-P
extent indicated on the lateral view of the hemisphere. As indicated on the cross-sections, the topographic
arrangement of the contralateral visual field is such that a progression from central to peripheral to far
peripheral vision is represented by a progression down the posterior bank of the sulcus and up along the
lower and then the lower part of the sulcal floor. Although this topography is clearest in the rostral portion of
the projection zone, it is also discernible caudally. Numerals refer to approximate A-P stereotaxic levels. For
abbreviations see figure 18.3. Adapted from Ungerleider and Mishkin 1979b.

ablation studies, certain areas have consistently been spared that can
now be identified as receiving direct projections from posterior and
medial striate cortex. These prestriate areas are the medial portion of
area OB (figure 18.16), the floor of the caudal portion of the superior
temporal sulcus (figure 18.17), and the depth of the most caudal portion
of the intraparietal sulcus (figure 18.19). Each of these three areas has
escaped damage for a different reason: the first because of its relative
inaccessibility, the second because it was not even recognized to be a
part of prestriate cortex, and the third because its precise location had
not been described. In light of the nearly complete sparing of these
areas in most ablation studies, the finding of only mild visual impair-
ment is no longer surprising. Only when these areas were invaded sub-
stantially, as in the massive prestriate removals of the Iwai-Mishkin
study, did severe visual impairment result. However, even in those le-

Two Cortical Visual Systems
