563

A + B +

Ie. On | ©

+20° +20°

Figure 18.9 Receptive-field properties of neurons in (A) inferior temporal and (B) poste-
rior parietal cortex. Axes represent horizontal and vertical meridians. Plus sign indicates
upper or right visual field; minus sign indicates lower or left. Scale is in degrees of visual
angle. A slow-moving stimulus typically effective in activating the given population of
neurons is shown at the left of each diagram. The enclosed geometric shape within each
set of axes indicates the border of the receptive field for a typical neuron in that popula-
tion. Note that of the inferior temporal neurons over 60% are bilateral, 100% include the
fovea, and there is selectivity for stimulus features; of the posterior parietal neurons over
60% are contralateral only, over 60% do not include the fovea, and there is no selectivity
for stimulus features. (Part A adapted from Gross et al. 1972; part B adapted from Robin-
son et al. 1978.)

the peripheral visual field). Interestingly, these differences in the or-
ganization of striate-cortex inputs inferred from the ablation studies are
clearly reflected in the receptive-field properties of neurons within the
inferior temporal (Gross et al. 1972; Jarvis and Mishkin 1975; Rolls et al.
1977) and posterior parietal areas (Hyvarinen and Poranen 1974;
Mountcastle et al. 1975; Robinson et al. 1978; Rolls et al. 1979a). The
relevant properties are shown diagrammatically in figure 18.9.

First, there is a smaller representation of the ipsilateral visual field in
the receptive fields of posterior parietal neurons than in those of in-
ferior temporal neurons: Over 60% of inferior temporal neurons have
bilateral receptive fields, while over 60% of posterior parietal neurons
have contralateral fields only. Second, there is a relatively greater repre-
sentation of the peripheral visual field in the receptive fields of poste-
rior parietal neurons than in those of inferior temporal neurons: 100%
of inferior temporal neurons have receptive fields that include the
fovea, while over 60% of posterior parietal neurons have receptive
fields outside the fovea. Finally, and perhaps most important, not only
are the striate-cortex inputs to the temporal and parietal areas organized
differently, but these inputs must also be carrying different information
to the two areas, as is indicated by the behavioral evidence for func-
tional dissociation. This too is clearly seen at the level of single neurons,
for, in contrast to the specific and often complex trigger features needed
for maximal activation of inferior temporal neurons (see, for example,
Gross et al. 1972), most posterior parietal neurons can be maximally
driven by simple spots of light (see Robinson et al. 1978). These several
differences in the receptive-field properties of inferior temporal and
posterior parietal neurons, each of which has a behavioral correlate that
was revealed in the ablation studies, presumably reflect differences in
the cortical processing required for object versus spatial vision.

Two Cortical Visual Systems
