578

disconnection. In view of the visuotopic organization of the striate
projection zones in both area OB and the caudal part of the superior
temporal sulcus, the details of which have been corroborated elec-
trophysiologically (Gattass and Gross 1979; Gattass et al. 1979), even
limited lesions within these prestriate zones should yield severe visual
deficits if the animals are forced to use the part of the visual field corre-
sponding to the area damaged. Testing of visual functions within

specified parts of the visual field can be accomplished in monkeys who.

have been trained to maintain fixation (Wurtz 1969). Thus, the combi-
nation of this method and the use of lesions based on our new under-
standing of prestriate anatomy offers a promising approach for the
study of the processing characteristics and functional organization of
prestriate cortex.

Summary and Conclusions

The hypothesis that has been guiding our research is that appreciation
of an object’s qualities and of its spatial location depends on the pro-
cessing of different kinds of visual information in the inferior temporal
and posterior parietal cortex, respectively. From an initial concern with
these higher-order visual areas, our research has proceeded backward.
Having first obtained strong support from ablation studies for the pos-
tulated dichotomy of temporal and parietal function, we next examined
the pathways through which visual information reaches these two cor-
tical areas. Converging evidence from a variety of sources—behavioral
and electrophysiological disconnection experiments as well as anatomi-
cal and metabolic mapping studies—indicated that both the temporal
and parietal visual areas depend on corticocortical inputs relayed from
striate through prestriate cortex. The results of prestriate ablation
studies, however, conflicted with this conclusion, since they commonly
indicated only modest deficits in both visual recognition and spatial
orientation. The solution to this puzzle emerged from a series of inter-
related behavioral, electrophysiological, and anatomical experiments
that demonstrated that every case of functional sparing after prestriate
damage can be directly attributed to the continued relay of information
through viable prestriate remnants. To determine the locus of these pre-
striate remnants, we turned to a study of the cortical efferents from all
parts of striate cortex. The results revealed that all prestriate lesions to
date, no matter how massive, have failed to include varying extents of
tissue that receive direct projections from posterior and medial striate
cortex, the parts representing peripheral vision. Having delineated the
projections of striate cortex, which were found to consist of three sepa-
rate re-representations of the visual field, we are now ina position to
proceed in a forward direction and follow these projections, with the
inferior temporal and posterior parietal cortex as our targets. In the
course of this endeavor, a major goal will be to determine where within

Ungerleider, Mishkin

