556

function within the posterior parietal region and the dependence of this
function on visual inputs.

As in most other posterior parietal ablation studies, the lesions in
Pohl’s study were composites that included not only inferior parietal
but also dorsal prestriate tissue. To test for localization of function
within this region, we partitioned it into three approximately equal
sectors—inferior parietal, lateral preoccipital, and medial parietal-
preoccipital—as shown in figure 18.3. Monkeys were then prepared
with lesions of either one, two, or all three of these sectors and tested on
the landmark, or distance discrimination, task (Mishkin, Lewis, and
Ungerleider, in prep.). Like the earlier attempts, this one failed to reveal
any evidence of functional specialization within the larger area. In-
stead, there was an especially clear relationship between severity of ef-
fect and extent of lesion, completely independent of locus. This finding
is illustrated in figure 18.4.

The fact that performance on the landmark task depends as much on
dorsal prestriate tissue as on inferior parietal tissue pointed to the pos-
sibility that the visual information on which posterior parietal cortex
operates arises in striate cortex. The alternative possibility, that the
critical visual input arises in the superior colliculus, found no clear sup-
port in a study of the effects of tectal lesions on landmark discrimination
(Snyder and Mishkin, unpublished data); even complete destruction of
the superior colliculus failed to produce a reliable loss in retention.
Therefore, to test for the functional dependence of posterior parietal
cortex on striate output, a crossed-lesion disconnection experiment
analogous to the striate-temporal disconnection experiment described
earlier (Mishkin 1966) was undertaken (Ungerleider and Mishkin
1978a). Monkeys were preoperatively trained on the landmark task, and
then received a three-stage operation intended to serially disconnect
posterior parietal from striate cortex. At each stage, the monkeys were
given a preoperative retention test followed by surgery, allowed 2
weeks to recover, and then retested.

As shown in part B of figure 18.5, the first removal was a unilateral
posterior parietal ablation, which included all three sectors investigated
in the partial-lesion study to ensure a complete effect. On the hypothe-
sis that each striate area has corticocortical connections with both poste-
rior parietal areas, this first lesion may be viewed as a test of the effects
of destroying two of these connections (the remaining two are indicated
by the black arrows in the figure). A comparison of preoperative with
postoperative retention scores on the task shows that this amount of
damage to the system had only minimal effect.

The second-stage removal was a contralateral striate-cortex ablation,
illustrated in part C of figure 18.5. It included all of the striate cortex,
both laterally and medially. The results of the retest given after this
operation revealed a severe impairment; the monkeys required an aver-
age of 880 trials to relearn, despite the remaining interhemispheric cor-

Ungerleider, Mishkin
