Wee NE ne et et Mane

565

tex after a prestriate ablation is directly attributable to the continued
relay of information across a viable prestriate pathway. This demon-
stration emerged from a series of interrelated behavioral, electro-
physiological, and anatomical experiments (Ungerleider, Iwai, Gross,
Bender, Snyder, and Mishkin, in prep.) that began in the follow-
ing way: In an attempt to verify that the inferior temporal cortex had
been functionally disconnected in the Iwai-Mishkin study, two of the
monkeys that had failed to show relearning after the prestriate lesions
were given prolonged pattern-discrimination training by a method of
approximation, in preparation for a second-stage lesion. The method
entailed presentation of a series of stimulus pairs that differed first in
brightness, then in size, then in contour, and finally in pattern; the
successive pattern pairs approximated the originals more and more
closely until the original pattern discrimination had been relearned.
Over several months both monkeys were successfully retrained by this
method, and both were then given bilateral inferior temporal ablations
in a second-stage operation. The supposition was that if the initial pre-
striate removal had produced a total disconnection of inferior temporal
from striate cortex, then the slow pattern-discrimination relearning by
approximation should have been achieved without the participation of
inferior temporal cortex, and, consequently, removal of this cortex
should not disrupt the relearned habit. As it turned out, however, the
inferior temporal ablation produced a complete reinstatement of the
deficit in both monkeys. Thus, unless inferior temporal cortex can par-
ticipate in visual discrimination learning in the absence of all cor-
ticocortical visual input, the only conclusion to be drawn from this
unexpected result is that the initial prestriate-cortex removal had not
produced a total striate-temporal disconnection after all.

In order to examine directly this question of preserved neural trans-
mission despite massive prestriate removals, an electrophysiological
study was undertaken in animals prepared with removals identical to
those in the Iwai-Mishkin study except that they were limited to one
hemisphere. The distribution of the receptive fields of inferior temporal
neurons in the operated animals is summarized in figure 18.10. Accord-
ing to the proposed route of visual information flow, indicated by the
arrows in the brain diagrams, these neurons should have responded to
visual stimulation only in the hemifield opposite the intact prestriate
cortex. That is, inferior temporal neurons in the intact hemisphere
should have had strictly contralateral visual fields, while inferior tem-
poral neurons in the hemisphere with the prestriate ablation should
have had strictly ipsilateral fields. In short, the results should have du-
plicated those obtained after unilateral striate removals, illustrated in
parts C and D of figure 18.2. In fact, however, the receptive fields of
approximately 25% of the neurons sampled did not fit this prediction.

In the normal monkey, stimulation in a given hemifield will activate
about 80% of inferior temporal neurons. For example, as indicated in

Two Cortical Visual Systems
