                        Journal of Machine Learning Research 4 (2003) 1107-1149                        Submitted 8/02; Published 12/03
                                                    Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                        Michail G. Lagoudakis                                                                   mgl@cs.duke.edu
                        Ronald Parr                                                                            parr@cs.duke.edu
                        Department of Computer Science
                        Duke University
                        Durham, NC 27708, USA
                        Editor: Peter L. Bartlett
                                                                        Abstract
                              We propose a new approach to reinforcement learning for control problems which com-
                             bines value-function approximation with linear architectures and approximate policy iter-
                             ation. This new approach is motivated by the least-squares temporal-diﬀerence learning
                             algorithm (LSTD) for prediction problems, which is known for its eﬃcient use of sample
                             experiences compared to pure temporal-diﬀerence algorithms. Heretofore, LSTD has not
                             had a straightforward application to control problems mainly because LSTD learns the
                             state value function of a ﬁxed policy which cannot be used for action selection and control
                             without a model of the underlying process. Our new algorithm, least-squares policy itera-
                             tion (LSPI), learns the state-action value function which allows for action selection without
                             a model and for incremental policy improvement within a policy-iteration framework. LSPI
                             is a model-free, oﬀ-policy method which can use eﬃciently (and reuse in each iteration)
                             sample experiences collected in any manner. By separating the sample collection method,
                             the choice of the linear approximation architecture, and the solution method, LSPI allows
                             for focused attention on the distinct elements that contribute to practical reinforcement
                             learning. LSPI is tested on the simple task of balancing an inverted pendulum and the
                             hardertaskof balancingand riding a bicycle to a target location. In both cases, LSPI learns
                             to control the pendulum or the bicycle by merely observing a relatively small number of
                             trials where actions are selected randomly. LSPI is also compared against Q-learning (both
                             with and without experience replay) using the same value function architecture. While
                             LSPI achieves good performance fairly consistently on the diﬃcult bicycle task, Q-learning
                             variants were rarely able to balance for more than a small fraction of the time needed to
                             reach the target location.
                             Keywords:        Reinforcement Learning, Markov Decision Processes, Approximate Policy
                             Iteration, Value-Function Approximation, Least-Squares Methods
                        1. Introduction
                        Approximation methods lie in the heart of all successful applications of reinforcement-
                        learning methods. Linear approximation architectures, in particular, have been widely used
                        as they oﬀer many advantages in the context of value-function approximation. While their
                        ability to generalize may be less powerful than black-box methods such as neural networks,
                        they have their virtues: they are easy to implement and use, and their behavior is fairly
                        transparent, both froman analysis standpointand froma debuggingandfeature-engineering
                        c
                        2003 Michail G. Lagoudakis and Ronald Parr.
                                                        Lagoudakis and Parr
                    standpoint. When linear methods fail, it is usually relatively easy to get some insight into
                    why the failure has occurred.
                        Our enthusiasm for the approach presented in this paper is inspired by the least-squares
                    temporal-diﬀerence learning algorithm (LSTD) (Bradtke and Barto, 1996). The LSTD algo-
                    rithm is ideal for prediction problems, that is, problems where we are interested in learning
                    the value function of a ﬁxed policy. LSTD makes eﬃcient use of data and converges faster
                    than other conventional temporal-diﬀerence learning methods. However, LSTD heretofore
                    has not had a straightforward application to control problems, that is, problems where we
                    are interested in learning a good control policy to achieve a task. Although it is initially
                    appealing to attempt to use LSTD in the evaluation step of a policy-iteration algorithm,
                    this combination can be problematic. Koller and Parr (2000) present an example where the
                    combination of LSTD-style function approximation and policy iteration oscillates between
                    two very bad policies in an MDP with just 4 states (Figure 9). This behavior is explained
                    by the fact that linear approximation methods such as LSTD compute an approximation
                                                                                                         1
                    that is weighted by the state visitation frequencies of the policy under evaluation.   Further,
                    even if this problem is overcome, a more serious diﬃculty is that the state value function
                    that LSTD learns is of no use for policy improvement when a model of the process is not
                    available, which is the case for most reinforcement-learning control problems.
                        This paper introduces the least-squares policy-iteration (LSPI) algorithm, which extends
                    the beneﬁts of LSTD to control problems. First, we introduce LSTDQ, an algorithm simi-
                    lar to LSTD that learns the approximate state-action value function of a ﬁxed policy, thus
                    permitting action selection and policy improvement without a model. Then, we introduce
                    LSPI which uses the results of LSTDQ to form an approximate policy-iteration algorithm.
                    LSPI combines the policy-search eﬃciency of policy iteration with the data eﬃciency of
                    LSTDQ. LSPI is a completely oﬀ-policy algorithm and can, in principle, use data col-
                    lected arbitrarily from any reasonable sampling distribution. The same data are (re)used
                    in each iteration of LSPI to evaluate the generated policies. LSPI enjoys the stability and
                    soundness of approximate policy iteration and eliminates learning parameters, such as the
                    learning rate, that need careful tuning. We evaluate LSPI experimentally on several con-
                    trol problems. A simple chain walk problem is used to illustrate important aspects of the
                    algorithm and the value-function approximation method. LSPI is tested on the simple task
                    of balancing an inverted pendulum and the harder task of balancing and riding a bicycle
                    to a target location. In both cases, LSPI learns to control the pendulum or the bicycle by
                    merely observing a relatively small number of trials where actions are selected randomly.
                    We also compare LSPI to Q-learning (Watkins, 1989), both with and without experience
                    replay (Lin, 1993), using the same value function architecture. While LSPI achieves good
                    performance fairly consistently on the diﬃcult bicycle task, Q-learning variants were rarely
                    able to balance the bicycle for more than a small fraction of the time needed to reach the
                    target location.
                        The paper is organized as follows: ﬁrst, we provide some background on Markov de-
                    cision processes (Section 2) and approximate policy iteration (Section 3); after outlining
                    the main idea behind LSPI (Section 4) and discussing value-function approximation with
                     1. Recent work by Precup et al. (2001) addresses the question of learning a value function for one policy
                        while following another stochastic policy. It does not directly address the question of how the policies
                        are generated.
                                                                  1108
                                                  Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                     linear architectures (Section 5), we introduce LSTDQ (Section 6) and LSPI (Section 7);
                     next, we compare LSPI to other reinforcement-learning methods (Section 8) and present an
                     experimental evaluation and comparison (Section 9); ﬁnally, we discuss open questions and
                     future directions of research (Section 10).
                     2. Markov Decision Processes
                     We assume that the underlying control problem is a Markov decision process (MDP). An
                     MDP is deﬁned as a 5-tuple (S,A,P,R,γ) where: S = {s1,s2,...,sn} is a ﬁnite set of
                     states; A = {a ,a ,...,a } is a ﬁnite set of actions; P is a Markovian transition model,
                                     1  2      m
                     where P(s,a,s0) is the probability of making a transition to state s0 when taking action a
                                   a    0                                                                           0
                     in state s (s −→ s ); R : S ×A×S 7→ IR is a reward (or cost) function, such that R(s,a,s )
                                                           a    0
                     is the reward for the transition s −→ s ; and, γ ∈ [0,1) is the discount factor for future
                     rewards. For simplicity of notation, we deﬁne R : S × A 7→ IR, the expected reward for a
                     state-action pair (s,a), as:
                                                  R(s,a) = XP(s,a,s0)R(s,a,s0) .
                                                             s0∈S
                     We will be assuming that the MDP has an inﬁnite horizon and that future rewards are
                     discounted exponentially with the discount factor (assuming that all policies are proper, that
                     is, they reach a terminal state with probability 1, our results generalize to the undiscounted
                     case, γ = 1, as well).
                        Astationary policy π for an MDP is a mapping π : S 7→ Ω(A), where Ω(A) is the set of
                     all probability distributions over A; π(a;s) stands for the probability that policy π chooses
                     action a in state s. A stationary deterministic policy π is a policy that commits to a single
                     action choice per state, that is, a mapping π : S 7→ A from states to actions; in this case,
                     π(s) indicates the action that the agent takes in state s.
                        The state-action value function Qπ(s,a) of any policy π is deﬁned over all possible
                     combinations of states and actions and indicates the expected, discounted, total reward
                     when taking action a in state s and following policy π thereafter:
                                                                  ∞                         !
                                         Qπ(s,a) = E               Xγtr  s =s, a =a             .
                                                      a ∼π ; s ∼P         t   0       0
                                                       t     t
                                                                   t=0
                     The exact Qπ values for all state-action pairs can be found by solving the linear system of
                     the Bellman equations:
                                       π                     X            0  X 0 0 π 0 0
                                     Q (s,a) = R(s,a)+γ           P(s,a,s )      π(a ;s )Q (s ,a ) .
                                                              0              0
                                                             s ∈S           a ∈A
                     In matrix format, the system becomes
                                                         Qπ =R+γPΠ Qπ ,
                                                                          π
                     where Qπ and R are vectors of size |S||A|, P is a stochastic matrix of size (|S||A| × |S|)
                     that contains the transition model of the process,
                                                                  0           0
                                                       P (s,a),s    =P(s,a,s) ,
                                                                   1109
                                                                                                              Lagoudakis and Parr
                                                                              Figure 1: Policy Iteration (Actor-Critic Architecture)
                                        and Ππ is a stochastic matrix of size (|S| × |S||A|) that describes policy π,
                                                                                                                   0         0    0                 0     0
                                                                                                          Ππ s,(s,a) =π(a;s) .
                                        The resulting linear system,
                                                                                                               (I −γPΠ )Qπ =R ,
                                                                                                                                   π
                                        can be solved analytically or iteratively to obtain the exact Qπ values. The state-action
                                        value function Qπ is also the ﬁxed point of the Bellman operator T :
                                                                                                                                                                                   π
                                                                                                                            X                        0   X 0 0                           0     0
                                                                      (T Q)(s,a) = R(s,a)+γ                                         P(s,a,s )                     π(a ;s )Q(s ,a ) .
                                                                          π
                                                                                                                             0                            0
                                                                                                                           s ∈S                         a ∈A
                                        T is a monotonic and quasi-linear operator and a contraction mapping in the L                                                                                                    norm
                                           π                                                                                                                                                                        ∞
                                        with contraction rate γ (Bertsekas and Tsitsiklis, 1996). For any initial vector Q, successive
                                        applications of T                      converge to the state-action value function Qπ of policy π.
                                                                          π
                                               For every MDP, there exists an optimal deterministic policy, π∗, which maximizes the
                                        expected, total, discounted reward from any initial state. It is, therefore, suﬃcient to restrict
                                        the search for the optimal policy only within the space of deterministic policies.
                                        3. Policy Iteration and Approximate Policy Iteration
                                        Policy iteration (Howard, 1960) is a method of discovering the optimal policy for any given
                                        MDP. Policy iteration is an iterative procedure in the space of deterministic policies; it
                                        discovers the optimal policy by generating a sequence of monotonically improving policies.
                                        Each iteration m consists of two phases: policy evaluation computes the state-action value
                                        function Qπm of the current policy π                                          bysolving the linear system of the Bellman equations,
                                                                                                                  m
                                        and policy improvement deﬁnes the improved greedy policy πm+1 over Qπm as
                                                                                                      π          (s) = argmaxQπm(s,a) .
                                                                                                         m+1
                                                                                                                                  a∈A
                                        Policy πm+1 is a deterministic policy which is at least as good as πm, if not better. These
                                        two steps (policy evaluation and policy improvement) are repeated until there is no change
                                                                                                                                  1110
                                              Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                            Figure 2: Approximate Policy Iteration
                   in the policy in which case the iteration has converged to the optimal policy, often in a
                   surprisingly small number of iterations.  Policy improvement is also know as the actor
                   and policy evaluation is known as the critic, because the actor is responsible for the way
                   the agent acts and the critic is responsible for criticizing the way the agent acts. Hence,
                   policy-iteration algorithms are also refered to as actor-critic architectures (Barto et al.,
                   1983; Sutton, 1984). Figure 1 shows a block diagram of policy iteration (or an actor-critic
                   architecture) and the dependencies among the various components.
                       Theguaranteed convergence of policy iteration to the optimal policy relies heavily upon
                   a tabular representation of the value function, exact solution of the Bellman equations,
                   and tabular representation of each policy. Such exact representations and methods are
                   impractical for large state and action spaces. In such cases, approximation methods are
                                                                                                           2
                   used. Approximations in the policy-iteration framework can be introduced at two places:
                      • The representation of the value function: The tabular (exact) representation of the
                         real-valued function Qπ(s,a) is replaced by a generic parametric function approxima-
                             bπ
                         tor Q (s,a;w), where w are the adjustable parameters of the approximator.
                      • The representation of the policy: The tabular (exact) representation of the policy
                         π(s) is replaced by a parametric representation πb(s;θ), where θ are the adjustable
                         parameters of the representation.
                   In either case, only the parameters of the representation need to be stored (along with a
                   compact representation of the approximation architecture) and the storage requirements
                   are much smaller than the tabular case. The crucial factor for a successful approximate
                   algorithm is the choice of the parametric approximation architecture(s) and the choice of
                   the projection (parameter adjustment) method(s). This form of policy iteration (depicted
                   in Figure 2) is known as approximate policy iteration. Notice that policy evaluation and
                    2. As a notational convention, an approximate representation is denoted with theb symbol.
                                                             1111
                                                                  Lagoudakis and Parr
                        value-function projection are essentially blended into one procedure, because there is no in-
                        termediate representation of a full value function that would facilitate their separation. The
                        same also is true for policy improvement and policy projection, since there is no interme-
                        diate representation for a complete policy. These facts demonstrate the diﬃculty involved
                        in the use of approximate methods within policy iteration: oﬀ-the-self architectures and
                        projection methods cannot be applied blindly; they have to be fully integrated into the
                        policy-iteration framework.
                             Anatural concern is whether the sequence of policies and value functions generated by
                        an approximate policy-iteration algorithm converges to a policy and a value function that
                        are not far from the optimal ones, if it converges at all. The answer to this question is given
                        bythefollowing generic theorem, adapted from Bertsekas and Tsitsiklis (1996), which shows
                        that approximate policy iteration is a fundamentally sound algorithm: if the error in policy
                        evaluation and projection and the error in policy improvement and projection are bounded,
                        then approximate policy iteration generates policies whose performance is not far from the
                        optimal performance. Further, this diﬀerence diminishes to zero as the errors decrease to
                        zero.
                        Theorem 3.1 Let πb , πb , πb , ..., πb           be the sequence of policies generated by an approx-
                                                   0    1   2         m
                                                                            bπb0   bπb1  bπb2        bπbm
                        imate policy-iteration algorithm and let Q , Q , Q , ..., Q                        be the corresponding ap-
                        proximate value functions. Let  and δ be positive scalars that bound the error in all ap-
                        proximations (over all iterations) to value functions and policies respectively. If
                                                                                bπbm       πbm
                                                         ∀ m=0,1,2,..., kQ            −Q k ≤ ,
                                                                                                ∞
                        and 3
                                                                                  bπbm        bπbm
                                                   ∀m=0,1,2,..., kT               Q −TQ k ≤δ .
                                                                            πbm+1           ∗        ∞
                        Then, this sequence eventually produces policies whose performance is at most a constant
                        multiple of  and δ away from the optimal performance:
                                                                        πb       ∗         δ +2γ
                                                                      b m
                                                           limsupkQ         −Qk ≤                     .
                                                                                    ∞              2
                                                            m→∞                           (1 −γ)
                             In addition to this L∞-norm bound, Munos (2003) recently provided a stronger bound in
                        termsofaweighted L2-normforaversionofapproximatepolicyiteration thatinvolves exact
                        representations of policies and approximate representations of their state value functions
                        and uses the full model of the MDP in both policy evaluation and policy improvement. This
                        recent result provides further evidence that approximate policy iteration is a fundamentally
                        sound algorithm.
                         3. T∗ is the Bellman optimality operator deﬁned as:
                                                      (T∗Q)(s,a) = R(s,a)+γ X P(s,a,s0)maxQ(s0,a0) .
                                                                                                a0∈A
                                                                                  0
                                                                                 s ∈S
                                                                              1112
                                               Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                             Figure 3: Least-squares policy iteration.
                   4. Reinforcement Learning and Approximate Policy Iteration
                   For many practical control problems, the underlying MDP model is not fully available.
                   Typically, the state space, the action space, and the discount factor are available, whereas
                   thetransition modelandtherewardfunctionarenotknowninadvance. Itisstilldesirableto
                   be able to evaluate, or, even better, ﬁnd good decision policies for such problems. However,
                   in this case, algorithms have to rely on information that comes from interaction between
                   the decision maker and the process itself or from a generative model of the process and
                                                                          4
                   includes observations of states, actions, and rewards.   These observations are commonly
                   organized in tuples known as samples:
                                                           (s,a,r,s0) ,
                   meaning that at some time step the process was in state s, action a was taken by the agent,
                   a reward r was received, and the resulting next state was s0. The problem of evaluating a
                   given policy or discovering a good policy from samples is know as reinforcement learning.
                       Samplescanbecollected fromactual (sequential) episodesof interaction with the process
                   or from queries to a generative model of the process. In the ﬁrst case, the learning agent
                   does not have much control on the distribution of samples over the state space, since the
                   process cannot be reinitialized at will. In contrast, with a generative model the agent has
                   full control on the distribution of samples over the state space as queries can be made for
                   any arbitrary state. However, in both cases, the action choices of the learning agent are not
                   restricted by the process, but only by the learning algorithm that is running. Samples may
                   even come from stored experiences of other agents on the same MDP.
                       The proposed least-squares policy iteration (LSPI) algorithm is an approximate policy-
                   iteration algorithm that learns decision policies from samples.    Figure 3 shows a block
                    4. A generative model of an MDP is a simulator of the process, that is, a “black box” that takes a state
                       s and an action a as inputs and generates a reward r and a next state s0 sampled according to the
                       dynamics of the MDP.
                                                               1113
                                                     Lagoudakis and Parr
                   diagram of LSPI that demonstrates how the algorithm ﬁts within the approximate policy-
                   iteration framework. The ﬁrst observation is that the state-action value function is ap-
                   proximated by a linear architecture and its actual representation consists of a compact
                   description of the basis functions and a set of parameters. A key idea in the development
                   of the algorithm was that the technique used by Q-learning of implicitly representing a
                   policy as a state-action value function could be applied to an approximate policy-iteration
                   algorithm. In fact, the policy is not physically stored anywhere, but is computed only on
                   demand. More speciﬁcally, for any query state s, one can access the representation of the
                   value function, compute all action values in that state, and perform the maximization to
                   derive the greedy action choice at that state. As a result, all approximations and errors in
                   policy improvement and representation are eliminated at the cost of some extra optimization
                   for each query to the policy.
                       Themissingpartfor closing the loop is a procedure that evaluates a policy using samples
                   andproducesits approximate value function. In LSPI, this step is performed by LSTDQ, an
                   algorithm which is very similar to LSTD and learns eﬃciently the approximate state-action
                                  bπ
                   value function Q of a policy π when the approximation architecture is a linear architecture.
                       LSPI is only one particular instance of a family of reinforcement-learning algorithms
                   for control based on approximate policy iteration. The two components that vary across
                   instances of this family are the approximation architecture and the policy evaluation and
                   projection procedure. For LSPI, these components were chosen to be linear architectures
                   andLSTDQ,but,inprinciple,anyotherpairofchoices would produceareasonable learning
                   algorithm for control. The choices made for LSPI oﬀer signiﬁcant advantages and opportu-
                   nities for optimizing the overall eﬃciency of the algorithm.
                       The following three sections describe all the details of the LSPI algorithm. In Section 5
                   we discuss linear approximation architectures and two projection methods for such archi-
                   tectures in isolation of the learning problem. We also compare these projection methods
                   and discuss their appropriateness in the context of learning. In Section 6, we describe in
                   detail the LSTDQ algorithm for learning the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation of the
                   state-action value function of a policy. We also cite a comparison of LSTDQ with LSTD
                   and we present some optimized variants of LSTDQ. Finally, in Section 7 we formally state
                   the LSPI algorithm and discuss its properties.
                   5. Value-Function Approximation using Linear Architectures
                        bπ                                  π
                   Let Q (s,a;w) be an approximation to Q (s,a) represented by a parametric approximation
                   architecture with free parameters w. The main idea of value-function approximation is that
                   the parameters w can be adjusted appropriately so that the approximate values are “close
                                                                   bπ
                   enough” to the original values, and, therefore, Q  can be used in place of the exact value
                   function Qπ. The characterization “close enough” accepts a variety of interpretations in this
                   context and it does not necessarily refer to a minimization of some norm. Value-function
                   approximation should be regarded as a functional approximation rather than as a pure
                   numerical approximation, where “functional” refers to the ability of the approximation to
                   play closely the functional role of the original function within a decision making algorithm.
                       Thediﬃcultyassociated withvalue-function approximation, beyond the loss in accuracy,
                   is the choice of the projection method. This is the method of ﬁnding appropriate parameters
                                                              1114
                                       Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                that maximize the accuracy of the approximation according to certain criteria and with
                respect to the target function. Typically, for ordinary function approximation, this is done
                                                           π    	                     π
                using a training set of examples of the form (s,a),Q (s,a) that provide the value Q (s,a)
                of the target function at certain sample points (s,a), a problem known as supervised learning.
                Unfortunately, in the context of decision making, the target function (Qπ) is not known in
                advance, and must be inferred from the observed system dynamics. The implication is
                that policy evaluation and projection to the approximation architecture must be blended
                together. This is usually achieved by trying to ﬁnd values for the free parameters so that
                the approximate function has certain properties that are “similar” to those of the original
                value function.
                   Acommonclassofapproximatorsforvalue-function approximation istheso called linear
                architectures, where the Qπ values are approximated by a linear parametric combination of
                k basis functions (features):
                                                      k
                                          bπ         X
                                          Q (s,a;w) =   φ (s,a)w ,
                                                          j     j
                                                     j=1
                where the w ’s are the parameters. The basis functions φ (s,a) are ﬁxed, but arbitrary
                           j                                      j
                and, in general, non-linear, functions of s and a. We require that the basis functions φ are
                                                                                        j
                linearly independentto ensurethat there are no redundantparameters and that the matrices
                                                    5
                involved in the computations are full rank. In general, k  |S||A| and the basis functions
                φ have compact descriptions. As a result, the storage requirements of a linear architecture
                 j
                are much smaller than those of the tabular representation. Typical linear approximation
                architectures are polynomials of any degree (each basis function is a polynomial term) and
                radial basis functions (each basis function is a Gaussian with ﬁxed mean and variance).
                   Linear architectures have their own virtues: they are easy to implement and use, and
                their behavior is fairly transparent, both from an analysis standpoint and from a debugging
                and feature engineering standpoint. It is usually relatively easy to get some insight into the
                reasons for which a particular choice of features succeeds or fails. This is facilitated by the
                fact that the magnitude of each parameter is related to the importance of the corresponding
                feature in the approximation (assuming normalized features).
                   Let Qπ be the (unknown) value function of a policy π given as a column vector of size
                              bπ
                |S||A|. Let also Q be the vector of the approximate state-action values as computed by a
                linear approximation architecture with parameters w and basis functions φ , j = 1,2,...,k.
                                                            j                  j
                Deﬁne φ(s,a) to be the column vector of size k where each entry j is the corresponding
                basis function φ computed at (s,a):
                              j
                                                    φ (s,a) 
                                                       1
                                                    ...     
                                                            
                                           φ(s,a) =  φ (s,a)  .
                                                    2       
                                                    ...     
                                                      φ (s,a)
                                                       k
                 5. This is not a very restrictive assumption. Linear dependencies, if present, result in singularities which
                   can be handled in most cases using singular value decomposition (SVD).
                                                    1115
                                                            Lagoudakis and Parr
                             bπ
                      Now, Q can be expressed compactly as
                                                                  bπ         π
                                                                  Q =Φw ,
                      where wπ is a column vector of length k with all parameters and Φ is a (|S||A|×k) matrix
                      of the form                                                 
                                                                               |
                                                                     φ(s ,a )
                                                                         1  1
                                                                        . . .     
                                                                            |     
                                                           Φ= φ(s,a)               .
                                                                                  
                                                                        . . .  | 
                                                                    φ(s   , a  )
                                                                       |S|  |A|
                      Each row of Φ contains the value of all basis functions for a certain pair (s,a) and each
                      column of Φ contains the value of a certain basis function for all pairs (s,a). If the basis
                      functions are linearly independent, then the columns of Φ are linearly independent as well.
                          Weseekto ﬁndacombined policy evaluation and projection method that takes as input
                                                                                                           π             bπ
                      a policy π and the model of the process and outputs a set of parameters w such that Q
                      is a “good” approximation to Qπ.
                      5.1 Bellman Residual Minimizing Approximation
                      Recall that the state-action value function Qπ is the solution of the Bellman equation:
                                                             Qπ =R+γPΠ Qπ .
                                                                               π
                      An obvious approach to deriving a good approximation is to require that the approximate
                      value function satisﬁes the Bellman equation as closely as possible. Substituting the approx-
                                bπ                 π
                      imation Q in place of Q yields an overconstrained linear system over the k parameters
                      wπ:
                                                                    bπ                    bπ
                                                                   Q ≈ R+γPΠπQ
                                                                 Φwπ ≈ R+γPΠ Φwπ
                                                                                         π
                                                   (Φ−γPΠ Φ)wπ ≈ R .
                                                               π
                      Solving this overconstrained system in the least-squares sense yields a solution
                                                                                
                                        π                      |                   −1                 |
                                      w = (Φ−γPΠπΦ) (Φ−γPΠπΦ)                        (Φ−γPΠπΦ) R ,
                      that minimizes the L2 norm of the Bellman residual (the diﬀerence between the left-hand
                      side and the right-hand side of the Bellman equation) and can be called the Bellman residual
                      minimizing approximation to the true value function. Note that the solution wπ of the
                      system is unique since the columns of Φ (the basis functions) are linearly independent
                      by deﬁnition. Alternatively, it may be desirable to control the distribution of function
                      approximation error. This can be achieved by solving the system above in a weighted
                      least-squares sense. Let µ be a probability distribution over (s,a) such that the probability
                      µ(s,a) indicates the importance of the approximation error at the point (s,a). Deﬁning
                                                                       1116
                                           Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                  ∆µ to be a diagonal matrix with entries µ(s,a), the weighted least-squares solution of the
                  system would be:
                                                                 
                              π                 |                  −1             |
                            w = (Φ−γPΠπΦ) ∆µ(Φ−γPΠπΦ)                (Φ−γPΠπΦ) ∆µR ,
                  The Bellman residual minimizing approach has been proposed (Schweitzer and Seidmann,
                  1985) as a means of computing approximate state value functions from the model of the
                  process.
                  5.2 Least-Squares Fixed-Point Approximation
                  Recall that the state-action value function Qπ is also the ﬁxed point of the Bellman operator:
                                                     T Qπ =Qπ .
                                                      π
                  Another way to go about ﬁnding a good approximation is to force the approximate value
                  function to be a ﬁxed point under the Bellman operator:
                                                        bπ   bπ
                                                     T Q ≈Q .
                                                      π
                  For that to be possible, the ﬁxed point has to lie in the space of approximate value functions
                                                                              bπ
                  which is the space spanned by the basis functions. Even though Q lies in that space by
                              bπ
                  deﬁnition, T Q may, in general, be out of that space and must be projected. Considering
                             π
                                               |   −1 |
                  the orthogonal projection (Φ(Φ Φ)  Φ ) which minimizes the L2 norm, we seek an ap-
                                         bπ
                  proximate value function Q that is invariant under one application of the Bellman operator
                  T followed by orthogonal projection:
                   π
                                         bπ          |  −1 |     bπ
                                        Q = Φ(Φ Φ) Φ T Q
                                                               π
                                                     |  −1 |             bπ
                                             = Φ(Φ Φ) Φ R+γPΠπQ .
                  Note that the orthogonal projection to the column space of Φ is well-deﬁned because the
                  columns of Φ (the basis functions) are linearly independent by deﬁnition. Manipulating the
                  equation above, we derive an expression for the desired solution that amounts to solving a
                  (k ×k) linear system, where k is the number of basis functions:
                                                |  −1 |             bπ       bπ
                                            Φ(Φ Φ) Φ (R+γPΠπQ ) = Q
                                              |   −1 |               π          π
                                          Φ(Φ Φ) Φ (R+γPΠπΦw ) = Φw
                                        |   −1 |               π     π
                                   Φ (Φ Φ) Φ (R+γPΠπΦw )−w               = 0
                                         |   −1 |               π     π
                                       (Φ Φ) Φ (R+γPΠπΦw )−w             = 0
                                              |   −1 |               π        π
                                            (Φ Φ) Φ (R+γPΠπΦw ) = w
                                                      |              π        |   π
                                                    Φ (R+γPΠπΦw ) = Φ Φw
                                                     |                π       |
                                                    Φ (Φ−γPΠπΦ)w         = Φ R .
                                                    |      {z      }        |{z}
                                                          (k×k)             (k×1)
                  For any Ππ, the solution of this system
                                                                 
                                             π      |               −1 |
                                            w = Φ (Φ−γPΠπΦ)           Φ R
                                                         1117
                                          Lagoudakis and Parr
                               Figure 4: Policy evaluation and projection methods.
               is guaranteed to exist for all, but ﬁnitely many, values of γ (Koller and Parr, 2000). Since
                                                                  π                  bπ
               the orthogonal projection minimizes the L2 norm, the solution w yields a value function Q
               which can be called the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation to the true value function.
                  Instead of using the orthogonal projection, it is possible to use a weighted projection to
               control the distribution of approximation error. If µ is a probability distribution over (s,a)
               and∆µisthediagonalmatrixwiththeprojectionweightsµ(s,a), theweighted least-squares
               ﬁxed-point solution would be:
                                                        
                                    π     |               −1 |
                                   w = Φ ∆µ(Φ−γPΠπΦ)        Φ ∆µR .
               Theleast-squares ﬁxed-point approach has been used for computing (Koller and Parr, 2000)
               or learning (Bradtke and Barto, 1996) approximate state value functions from a factored
               model of the process and from samples respectively.
               5.3 Comparison of Projection Methods
               We presented above two intuitive ways to combine policy evaluation and value-function
               projection for ﬁndinga good approximate value function represented as a linear architecture.
               Anobviousquestionatthispointiswhetheroneofthemhassomeadvantagesovertheother.
                  Figure 4 is a very simpliﬁed graphical representation of the situation. Let the three-
               dimensional space be the space of exact value functions Q and let the two-dimensional space
               marked by Φ be the space of approximate value functions. Consider the approximate value
                       b                                                        b
               function Q = Φw that lies on Φ. The application of the Bellman operator T to Q yields a
                                                                            π
                              b
               value function T Q which may be, in general, outside the Φ plane. Orthogonal projection
                            π
                       b                                                   b0     0
               (⊥) of T Q to the Φ plane yields some other approximate value function Q = Φw . The
                      π
               true value function Qπ of policy π may lie somewhere outside the Φ plane, in general, and
                                                           bπ      π
               its orthogonal projection to the Φ plane is marked by Q = Φw .
                  The policy evaluation and projection methods considered here are trying to ﬁnd a w,
                                                  b
               such that the approximate value function Q = Φw is a “good” approximation to the true
               value function Qπ. Since these methods do not have access to Qπ itself they have to rely on
               information contained in the Bellman equation and the Bellman operator for policy π to ﬁnd
               a “good” w. It is easy to see that the Bellman residual minimizing approximation minimizes
                                                  1118
                                             Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                           b        b
                  the L distance between Q and T Q, whereas the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation
                        2                          π
                                                                                        b     b0
                  minimizes the projection of that distance, that is, the distance between Q and Q . In fact,
                                                                                        b      b0
                  the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation drives the distance between Q and Q to zero
                                                      b    b0
                  since it is solving for the ﬁxed point Q = Q . The solution found by the Bellman residual
                  minimizing method will most likely not be a ﬁxed point even within the Φ plane.
                      The Bellman operator T is known to be a contraction in the L  norm. In our picture,
                                             π                                    ∞
                  that means that for any point Q in the three-dimensional space, the point T Q will be closer
                                                                                         π
                  to Qπ in the L∞ norm sense. Pictorially, imagine a cube aligned with the axes of the three-
                  dimensional space and centered at Qπ with Q being a point on the surface of the cube; the
                  point T Q will have to be strictly contained inside this cube (except at Qπ where the cube
                         π
                  degenerates to a single point). With this view in mind, the Bellman residual minimizing
                  approximation ﬁnds the point on the Φ plane where the Bellman operator is making the
                  least progress toward Qπ only in terms of magnitude (L2 distance), ignoring the direction of
                  the change. The motivation for reducing the L2 norm of the Bellman residual comes from
                  the well-known results bounding the distance to Qπ in terms of the L∞ norm (Williams
                  and Baird, 1993).
                      Ontheotherhand,theleast-squares ﬁxed-point approximation ignores the magnitude of
                  theBellmanoperatorstepsandfocusesonthedirectionofthechange. Inparticular, itsolves
                  for the unique point on the Φ plane where the Bellman operator becomes perpendicular to
                  the plane. A motivation for choosing this approximation is that if subsequent applications
                  of the Bellman operator point in a similar direction, the approximation should not be far
                  from the projection of Qπ onto the Φ plane.
                      Clearly, the solutions found by these two methods will be diﬀerent since their objectives
                  are diﬀerent, except in the case where the true value function Qπ lies in the Φ plane; in
                  that case, both methods are in fact solving the Bellman equation and their solutions are
                  identical. If Qπ does not lie in the Φ plane, there is no clear evidence that any of the two
                  methodswillﬁndagoodsolutionoreven thesolutionwπ that correspondsto the orthogonal
                  projection of Qπ to the plane.
                      Munos (2003) provides a theoretical comparison of the two approximation methods
                  in the context of state value-function approximation when the model of the process is
                  known. He concludes that the least-squares ﬁxed point approximation is less stable and less
                  predictable compared to the Bellman residual minimizing approximation depending on the
                  value of the discount factor. This is expected, however, since the least-squares ﬁxed-point
                  linear system is singular for a ﬁnite number of discount-factor values. On the other hand,
                  he states that the least-squares ﬁxed-point method might be preferable in the context of
                  learning.
                      From a practical point of view, there are two sources of evidence that the least-squares
                  ﬁxed-point method is preferable to the Bellman residual minimizing method:
                      • Learning the Bellman residual minimizing approximation requires “doubled” sam-
                        ples (Sutton and Barto, 1998) that can only be collected from a generative model of
                        the MDP.
                      • Experimentally, the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation often delivers policies
                        that are superior to the ones found using the Bellman residual minimizing approxi-
                        mation.
                                                            1119
                                                                                                              Lagoudakis and Parr
                                        For the rest of the paper, we focus only on the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation with
                                        minimal reference to the Bellman residual minimizing approximation.
                                        6. LSTDQ: Least-Squares Temporal-Diﬀerence Learning for the
                                             State-Action Value Function
                                        Consider the problem of learning the (weighted) least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation
                                         bπ                                                                                π
                                        Q to the state-action value function Q of a ﬁxed policy π from samples. Assuming that
                                        there are k linearly independent basis functions in the linear architecture, this problem is
                                                                                                                            π          bπ                  π                                                      π
                                        equivalent to learning the parameters w                                                 of Q = Φw . The exact values for w can be
                                        computed from the model by solving the (k ×k) linear system
                                                                                                                           Awπ =b ,
                                        where
                                                                                              |                                                                             |
                                                                               A=Φ∆µ(Φ−γPΠπΦ)                                                  and              b = Φ ∆µR ,
                                        and µ is a probability distribution over (S × A) that deﬁnes the weights of the projection.
                                        For the learning problem, A and b cannot be determined a priori, either because the matrix
                                        P and the vector R are unknown, or because P and R are so large that they cannot be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                        used in any practical computation. However, A and b can be learned using samples; the
                                        learned linear system can then be solved to yield the learned parameters weπ which, in turn,
                                        determine the learned value function. Taking a closer look at A and b:
                                                                               |
                                                           A = Φ ∆µ(Φ−γPΠπΦ)
                                                                           XX                                                                  X                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                         0       0            0   |
                                                                   =                       φ(s,a)µ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γ                                        P(s,a,s )φ s ,π(s )
                                                                            s∈S a∈A                                                             s0∈S
                                                                           XX                             X                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                   0                                                0           0   |
                                                                   =                       µ(s,a)                 P(s,a,s ) φ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γφ s ,π(s )                                                           ,
                                                                            s∈S a∈A                      s0∈S
                                                                             b     = Φ|∆ R
                                                                                                     µ
                                                                                   = XXφ(s,a)µ(s,a)XP(s,a,s0)R(s,a,s0)
                                                                                           s∈S a∈A                                     s0∈S
                                                                                           XX                             X                        0  h                               0  i
                                                                                   =                       µ(s,a)                 P(s,a,s ) φ(s,a)R(s,a,s )                                   .
                                                                                           s∈S a∈A                       s0∈S
                                        From these equations, it is clear that A and b have a special structure. A is the sum of
                                        many rank one matrices of the form:
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                              0            0   |
                                                                                                   φ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γφ s,π(s )                                             ,
                                        and b is the sum of many vectors of the form:
                                                                                                                   φ(s,a)R(s,a,s0) .
                                         6. As a notational convention, a learned estimate is denoted with thee symbol.
                                                                                                                                  1120
                                                                                                  Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                        These summations are taken over s, a, and s0 and each summand is weighted by the projec-
                                                                                                                                                                            0                                            a        0
                                        tion weight µ(s,a) for the pair (s,a) and the probability P(s,a,s ) of the transition s −→ s .
                                        For large problems, it is impractical to compute this summation over all (s,a,s0) triplets. It
                                        is practical, however, to sample terms from this summation; for unbiased sampling, s and
                                        a must be drawn jointly from µ, and s0 must be drawn from P(s,a,s0). It is trivial to see
                                        that, in the limit, the process of sampling triplets (s,a,s0) from this distribution and adding
                                        the corresponding terms together, can be used to obtain arbitrarily close approximations
                                        to A and b.
                                               The key observation here is that a sample (s,a,r,s0) drawn from the process along with
                                        the policy π in state s0 provide all the information needed to form one sample term of these
                                        summations. This is true because s0 is a sample transition for taking action a in state s,
                                                                                                        0                                                                              7
                                        and r is sampled from R(s,a,s ). So, given any ﬁnite set of samples,
                                                                                                       n                          0                                    o
                                                                                             D= (s,a,r,s)i=1,2,...,L                                                         ,
                                                                                                                i     i     i     i
                                        Aandbcan be learned as:
                                                                                                       L                                                                        
                                                                                e                1X                                                            0            0   |
                                                                               A =                            φ(s ,a ) φ(s ,a ) − γφ s ,π(s )                                              ,
                                                                                                L                    i     i            i     i                  i          i
                                                                                                     i=1
                                                                                                                                L h                        i
                                                                                                           e              1 X
                                                                                                           b     =                     φ(s ,a )r                ,
                                                                                                                          L                   i     i    i
                                                                                                                              i=1
                                        assuming that the distribution µD of the samples in D over (S × A) matches the desired
                                                                                                                                                                                                     e       ^
                                        distribution µ. The equations can also be written in matrix notation. Let Φ, PΠπΦ, and
                                         e
                                        Rbethe following matrices:
                                                                                     |                                             0                    0   |                                             
                                                                    φ(s ,a )                                                             φ s ,π(s )                                                      r
                                                                           1      1                                                             1          1                                               1
                                                                             .                                                                    .                                             . 
                                                                             .                                                                    .                                             . 
                                                                             .                                                     .                                                           . 
                                                    e                               |                        ^  0 0 |                                                                e                     
                                                   Φ= φ(s,a)                                     ,           PΠ Φ=                       φ s ,π(s )                          ,          R= r                            .
                                                                           i     i                                 π                          i         i                                       i 
                                                                             .                                                                    .                                             . 
                                                                             .                                                                    .                                             . 
                                                                              .                                                                      .                                                    .
                                                                                       |                                                       0           0      |
                                                                    φ(s ,a )                                                            φ s ,π(s )                                                       r
                                                                           L L                                                                 L           L                                               L
                                                      e             e
                                        Then, A and b can be written as
                                                                                 e          1 e| e                    ^                                        e         1 e|e
                                                                                 A=LΦ(Φ−γPΠπΦ)                                                 and              b = L Φ R .
                                                                                                                                                      e            e
                                        These two equations show clearly the relationship of A and b to A and b. In the limit of an
                                                                                                 e            e
                                        inﬁnite number of samples, A and b converge to the matrices of the least-squares ﬁxed-point
                                        approximation weighted by µD:
                                                                             e            |                                                                               e            |
                                                                   lim A = Φ ∆µ (Φ−γPΠπΦ)                                                     and                 lim b = Φ ∆µ R .
                                                                 L→∞                               D                                                            L→∞                             D
                                         7. In describing the algorithms below, we assume an abstract source of samples D which can be a set of
                                              precollected samples, a generative model, online experience from the actual process, etc.
                                                                                                                                  1121
                                                                                                              Lagoudakis and Parr
                                        As a result, the learned approximation is biased by the distribution µD of samples. In
                                        general, the distribution µD might be diﬀerent from the desired distribution µ. A mismatch
                                        between µ and µD may be mitigated by using density estimation techniques to estimate µD
                                        and then using projection weights corresponding to the importance weights needed to shift
                                        the sampling distribution towards the target distribution. Also, the problem is resolved
                                        trivially when a generative model is available, since samples can be drawn so that µD = µ.
                                        For simplicity, this paper focuses only on learned approximations that are naturally biased
                                        by the distribution of samples whatever that might be.
                                                                                                                      e             e
                                               In any practical computation of A and b, L is ﬁnite and therefore the multiplicative
                                        factor (1/L) can be dropped without aﬀecting the solution of the system, since it cancels
                                                                                                                                         e             e
                                        out. Given that a single sample contributes to A and b additively, it is easy to construct an
                                                                                                                                    (t)              (t)
                                                                                                   e             e               e                 e
                                        incremental update rule for A and b. Let A                                                        and b            be the current learned estimates of
                                                                                                                                                          (0)                        (0)
                                                                                                                                                       e                           e
                                        Aandbfor a ﬁxed policy π, assuming that initially A                                                                     =0andb =0. Anewsample
                                        (s ,a ,r ,s0) contributes to the approximation according to the following update equations:
                                            t     t     t     t
                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                               e(t+1)              e(t)                                                           0            0   |
                                                                               A             =A +φ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γφ s,π(s )                                                                   ,
                                                                                                                       t      t            t     t                  t          t
                                                                                                             (t+1)             (t)
                                                                                                           e                e
                                                                                                           b           =b +φ(s,a)r .
                                                                                                                                                t     t    t
                                        It is straightforward now to construct an algorithm that learns the weighted least-squares
                                        ﬁxed-point approximation of the state-action value function of a ﬁxed policy π from samples
                                        in a batch or in an incremental way. We call this new algorithm LSTDQ (summarized in
                                        Figure 5) due to its similarity to LSTD. In fact, one can think of the LSTDQ algorithm as
                                        the LSTD algorithm applied on a Markov chain with states (s,a) in which transitions are
                                        inﬂuenced by both the dynamics of the original MDP and the policy π being evaluated.
                                               Another feature of LSTDQ is that the same set of samples D can be used to learn the
                                                                                                    bπ                                                                     0                                                 0
                                        approximate value function Q of any policy π, as long as π(s ) is available for each s in
                                                                                                                                              0            0                                e
                                        the set. The policy merely determines which φ s ,π(s ) is added to A for each sample.
                                        This feature is particularly important in the context of policy iteration since all policies
                                        produced during the iteration can be evaluated using a single sample set.
                                               The approximate value function learned by LSTDQ is biased by the distribution of
                                        samples over (S × A). This distribution can be easily controlled when samples are drawn
                                        from a generative model, but it is a lot harder when samples are drawn from the actual
                                        process. A nice feature of LSTDQ is that it poses no restrictions on how actions are chosen
                                        during sample collection. Therefore, the freedom in action choices can be used to control
                                        the sample distribution to the extent this is possible. In contrast, action choices for LSTD
                                        must be made according to the policy under evaluation when samples are drawn from the
                                        actual process.
                                               The diﬀerences between LSTD and LSTDQ are listed in Table 1. The last three items
                                        in the table apply only to the case where samples are drawn from the actual process, but
                                        there is no diﬀerence in the generative model case.
                                               Notice that apart from storing the samples, LSTDQ requires only O(k2) space indepen-
                                        dently of the size of the state and the action space. For each sample in D, LSTDQ incurs a
                                                               2                                                      e             e                                                     3
                                        cost of O(k ) to update the matrices A and b. A one-time cost of O(k ) is paid for solving
                                                                                                                                  1122
                                                             Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                                                                                    bπ
                                     LSTDQ(D, k, φ, γ, π)                              // Learns Q from samples
                                                                                        0
                                           //    D : Source of samples (s,a,r,s )
                                           //    k    : Number of basis functions
                                           //    φ    : Basis functions
                                           //    γ    : Discount factor
                                           //    π    : Policy whose value function is sought
                                            e
                                           A←0               // (k ×k) matrix
                                           e
                                           b ←0              // (k ×1) vector
                                                                 0
                                           for each (s,a,r,s ) ∈ D
                                                                                                
                                                                                                |
                                                  e     e                               0     0
                                                 A←A+φ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γφ s,π(s)
                                                 e     e
                                                 b ←b+φ(s,a)r
                                             π       −1
                                                   e    e
                                           we  ←A πb
                                           return we          Figure 5: The LSTDQ algorithm.
                              LSTD                                                    LSTDQ
                              Learns the state value function Vπ                      Learns the state-action value function Qπ
                              Basis functions of state                                Basis functions of state and action
                              Samples cannot be reused                                Samples can be reused
                              Training samples collected by π                         Training samples collected arbitrarily
                              Sampling distribution cannot be controlled              Sampling distribution can be controlled
                              Bias by the stationary distribution of π                Bias by the sampling distribution
                                                    Table 1: Diﬀerences between LSTD and LSTDQ.
                         the system and ﬁnding the parameters. There is also a cost for determining π(s0) for each
                                                                                                                              8
                         sample. This cost depends on the speciﬁc form of policy representation used.
                                                                                                                         e
                              The LSTDQ algorithm in its simplest form involves the inversion of A for solving the
                                                           e
                         linear system. However, A will not be full rank until a suﬃcient number of samples has
                                                                                                                  e
                         been processed. One way to avoid such singularities is to initialize A to a multiple of the
                         identity matrix δI for some small positive δ, instead of 0 (ridge regression, Dempster et al.,
                         1977). The convergence properties of the algorithm are not aﬀected by this change (Nedi´c
                         and Bertsekas, 2003). Another possibility is to use singular value decomposition (SVD)
                                                       e
                         for robust inversion of A which also eliminates singularities due to linearly dependent basis
                         functions. However, if the linear system must be solved frequently and eﬃciency is a concern,
                         a more eﬃcient implementation of LSTDQ would use recursive least-squares techiques to
                                                        e                          (t)                        e(t)
                         compute the inverse of A recursively. Let B                   be the inverse of A          at time t. Using the
                          8. The explicit tabular representation of π that incurs only a constant O(1) cost per query is not an
                             applicable choice for the large problems we consider because of huge state-action spaces.
                                                                                 1123
                                                                                                              Lagoudakis and Parr
                                                                                                                                                                       bπ
                                                           LSTDQ-OPT(D, k, φ, γ, π)                                                                // Learns Q from samples
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                     //        D : Source of samples (s,a,r,s )
                                                                     //        k       : Number of basis functions
                                                                     //        φ       : Basis functions
                                                                     //        γ       : Discount factor
                                                                     //        π       : Policy whose value function is sought
                                                                     e         1
                                                                     B←δI                        // (k ×k) matrix
                                                                    e
                                                                     b ←0                        // (k ×1) vector
                                                                                                       0
                                                                     for each (s,a,r,s ) ∈ D                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                |
                                                                                                    Bφ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γφ s0,π(s0)                                        B
                                                                               B←B−                                                                 |
                                                                                                                                     0           0 
                                                                                                  1+ φ(s,a)−γφ s,π(s)                                     Bφ(s,a)
                                                                              e        e
                                                                               b ←b+φ(s,a)r
                                                                        π         e e
                                                                     we    ←Bb
                                                                     return weπ
                                                                 Figure 6: An optimized implementation of the LSTDQ algorithm.
                                        Sherman-Morrison formula, we have:
                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                    (t)                  e(t−1)                                                             0            0    | −1
                                                                B            = A                      +φ(s ,a ) φ(s ,a )−γφ s ,π(s )
                                                                                                                  t     t            t     t                   t         t
                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                            (t−1)                                                      0            0   | (t−1)
                                                                                                         B            φ(s ,a ) φ(s ,a ) −γφ s ,π(s )                                           B
                                                                                         (t−1)                              t      t            t     t                  t          t
                                                                             = B                   −                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                    0            0   | (t−1)
                                                                                                           1+ φ(s ,a )−γφ s ,π(s )                                          B            φ(s ,a )
                                                                                                                             t     t                  t          t                              t     t
                                        This optimized version of LSTDQ is shown in Figure 6. Notice that the O(k3) cost for
                                        solving the system has been eliminated.
                                               LSTDQisalsoapplicableinthecaseofinﬁniteandcontinuousstateand/oraction spaces
                                        with no modiﬁcation. States and actions are reﬂected only through the basis functions of the
                                        linear approximation and the resulting value function covers the entire state-action space
                                        with the appropriate choice of basis functions.
                                               If there is a (compact) model of the MDP available, LSTDQ can use it to compute
                                        (instead of sampling) the summation over s0. In that case, for any state-action pair (s,a),
                                        the update equations become:
                                                                          e           e                                               X                       0       0            0  |
                                                                          A←A+φ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γ                                                  P(s,a,s )φ s ,π(s )                               ,
                                                                                                                                      s0∈S
                                                                                            e        e                      X                        0                   0
                                                                                            b ←b+φ(s,a)                             P(s,a,s )R(s,a,s ) .
                                                                                                                            s0∈S
                                                                                                                                  1124
                                                            Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                                                                                              bπ
                                    LSTDQ-Model(D, k, φ, γ, π, P, R)                              // Learns Q from samples
                                          //     D : Source of samples (s,a)
                                          //     k   : Number of basis functions
                                          //     φ   : Basis functions
                                          //     γ   : Discount factor
                                          //     π   : Policy whose value function is sought
                                          //     P : Transition model
                                          //     R : Reward function
                                           e
                                          A←0               // (k ×k) matrix
                                          e
                                          b ←0              // (k ×1) vector
                                          for each (s,a) ∈ D                      X                            
                                                 e     e                                         0    0      0  |
                                                 A←A+φ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γ                   P(s,a,s )φ s ,π(s )
                                                                                   0
                                                                   X              s ∈S
                                                e     e                          0          0
                                                 b ←b+φ(s,a)           P(s,a,s )R(s,a,s )
                                                                   0
                                                                  s ∈S
                                            π       −1
                                                  e    e
                                          we   ←A πb
                                          return we
                                                    Figure 7: The LSTDQ algorithm with a model.
                         This is practical only if the set of possible next states s0 is fairly small for each (s,a) pair.
                         Alternatively, only a few dominant terms of the summation can be computed. Clearly, in
                         the presence of a model, there is no need for samples of the form (s,a,r,s0) at all; only
                         samples (s,a) are needed which can be drawn at any desired distribution from (S × A).
                         This version of LSTDQ that exploits a model is summarized in Figure 7.
                             It is also possible to extend LSTDQ to LSTDQ(λ) in a way that resembles closely
                         LSTD(λ) (Boyan, 2002), but in that case it is necessary that the sample set consists of
                         complete episodes generated using the policy under evaluation. This limits signiﬁcantly the
                         options for sample collection, and may also prevent the reuse of samples across diﬀerent
                         iterations of policy iteration. In addition, learned state-action value functions in this case
                         may not be trusted for policy improvement as they will certainly be inaccurate for actions
                         other than the ones the current policy takes.
                             LSTDQ learns the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation to the state-action value
                         function Qπ of a ﬁxed policy π. Suppose that it is desired to learn the Bellman residual
                         minimizing approximation instead. Without going into details, the matrix A would be :
                                                    |
                            A = (Φ−γPΠ Φ) ∆ (Φ−γPΠ Φ)
                                               π       µ           π
                                     XX                  X            00   00    00                   X           0    0    0 |
                                =             φ(s,a)−γ         P(s,a,s )φ s ,π(s )    µ(s,a) φ(s,a)−γ         P(s,a,s )φ s ,π(s )
                                     s∈Sa∈A               00                                              0
                                                         s ∈S                                            s ∈S
                                     XX             X            0 X            00              00    00               0    0 |
                                =            µ(s,a)      P(s,a,s )      P(s,a,s )    φ(s,a)−γφ s ,π(s )       φ(s,a) −γφ s ,π(s )        .
                                     s∈Sa∈A          0              00
                                                    s ∈S           s ∈S
                                                                                1125
                                                                                                              Lagoudakis and Parr
                                           To form an unbiased estimate of A by sampling, s and a must be drawn jointly from µ,
                                        and s0 and s00 must be drawn from P(s,a,s0) independently. The implication is that a single
                                        sample (s,a,r,s0) is not suﬃcient to form a sample summand
                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                             00            00                                    0            0   |
                                                                                   φ(s,a)−γφ s ,π(s )                                  φ(s,a)−γφ s,π(s)                                     .
                                        It is necessary to have two samples (s,a,r,s0) and (s,a,r,s00) for the same state-action pair
                                        (s,a) and therefore all samples from the MDP have to be “doubled” (Sutton and Barto,
                                        1998). Obtaining such samples is trivial with a generative model, but virtually impossible
                                        when samples are drawn directly from the process. This fact makes the least-squares ﬁxed-
                                        point approximation much more practical for learning.
                                        7. LSPI: Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                        At this point, all ingredients are in place to state the policy evaluation and improvement
                                        steps of the LSPI algorithm. The state-action value function is approximated using a linear
                                        architecture:
                                                                                                                          k
                                                                                              b                        X                                              |
                                                                                             Q(s,a;w) =                        φ (s,a)w = φ(s,a) w .
                                                                                                                                  i              i
                                                                                                                        i=1
                                        The greedy policy π over this approximate value function at any given state s can be
                                        obtained through maximization of the approximate values over all actions in A:
                                                                                                                         b                                                 |
                                                                                        π(s) = argmaxQ(s,a) = argmaxφ(s,a) w .
                                                                                                               a∈A                                   a∈A
                                        For ﬁnite action spaces this is straightforward, but for very large or continuous action spaces,
                                        explicit maximization over all actions in A may be impractical. In such cases, some sort of
                                        global optimization over the space of actions may be required to determine the best action.
                                        Depending on role of the action variables in the approximate state-action value function,
                                        a closed form solution may be possible as, for example, in the adaptive policy-iteration
                                        algorithm (Bradtke, 1993) for linear quadratic regulation.
                                               Finally, any policy π (represented by the basis functions φ and a set of parameters
                                        w) is fed to LSTDQ along with a set of samples for evaluation. LSTDQ performs the
                                        maximization above as needed to determine policy π for each s0 of each sample (s,a,r,s0)
                                        in the sample set. LSTDQ outputs the parameters wπ of the approximate value function
                                        of policy π and the iteration continues in the same manner.
                                               TheLSPIalgorithm is summarized in Figure 8. Any source D of samples can be used in
                                        each iteration for the call to LSTDQ. If an initial set of samples that adequately covers the
                                        state-action space can be obtained, this single set may be reused in every iteration of LSPI.
                                        Alternatively, D may be updated between iterations. Notice also that since value functions
                                        and policies are represented through the parameters w of the approximation architecture,
                                        a metric on consecutive parameters is used as the stopping criterion. In this sense, LSPI
                                        can be thought of as an iteration in the space of parameters w. However, since LSPI is an
                                        approximate policy iteration algorithm, the generic bound on policy iteration applies. An
                                        important property of LSPI is that it does not require an approximate policy representation,
                                        thusremovinganysourceoferrorintheactorpartoftheactor-critic architecture. Therefore,
                                        Theorem 3.1 can be stated as follows.
                                                                                                                                  1126
                                                           Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                              LSPI (D, k, φ, γ, , π )                      // Learns a policy from samples
                                                          0
                                                                              0
                                    //    D : Source of samples (s,a,r,s )
                                    //    k   : Number of basis functions
                                    //    φ   : Basis functions
                                    //    γ   : Discount factor
                                    //       : Stopping criterion
                                    //    π   : Initial policy, given as w   (default: w = 0)
                                           0                               0             0
                                    π0 ← π                                         // w0 ← w
                                            0                                                  0
                                    repeat
                                          π ←π0                                    // w ←w0
                                          π0 ← LSTDQ (D, k, φ, γ, π)               // w0 ← LSTDQ (D, k, φ, γ, w)
                                    until (π ≈ π0)                                 // until (kw −w0k < )
                                    return π                                       // return w
                                                             Figure 8: The LSPI algorithm.
                        Theorem 7.1 Let π0, π1, π2, ..., πm be the sequence of policies generated by LSPI and
                             bπ1    bπ2         bπm
                        let Q , Q , ..., Q            be the corresponding approximate value functions as computed by
                        LSTDQ. Let  be a positive scalar that bounds the errors between the approximate and the
                        true value functions over all iterations:
                                                                              bπm        πm
                                                          ∀ m=1,2,..., kQ           −Q k ≤ .
                                                                                              ∞
                        Then, this sequence eventually produces policies whose performance is at most a constant
                        multiple of  away from the optimal performance:
                                                                        π        ∗           2γ
                                                                      b m
                                                           limsupkQ         −Qk ≤                    .
                                                                                   ∞               2
                                                            m→∞                           (1 −γ)
                            This theorem implies that LSPI is a stable algorithm. It will either converge or it
                        will oscillate in an area of the policy space where policies have suboptimality bounded
                        by the value-function approximation error . Reducing  is critical in obtaining quality
                        guarantees for LSPI. The two factors that determine  are the choice of basis functions and
                        the sample distribution. By separating the algorithm, the choice of basis, and the collection
                        of samples, LSPI focuses attention more clearly on the distinct elements that contribute to
                        reinforcement-learning performance.
                            LSPI provides great ﬂexibility in addressing the questions of basis function selection
                        and sample collection. First, it is not necessary that the set of basis functions remains
                        the same throughout the LSPI iterations. At each iteration, a diﬀerent policy is evaluated
                        and certain sets of basis functions may be more appropriate than others for representing
                        the state-action value function for each of these policies. This paper does not address the
                        question of how to select a good set of basis functions. Feature selection and engineering
                        issues occur in all areas of machine learning and LSPI is not unique in its decoupling of the
                                                                              1127
                          Lagoudakis and Parr
          approximation and feature selection problems. Second, LSPI allows for great ﬂexibility in
          the collection of samples used in each iteration. Since LSPI approximates state-action value
          functions, it can use samples from any policy to estimate the state-action value function of
          another policy. This focuses attention more clearly on the issue of exploration since any
          policy can be followed while collecting samples.
           LSPIexploits linear approximation architectures, butit should not be considered inferior
          to exact methods. In fact, the range of possible choices for representing the state-action
          value function allows everything from tabular and exact representations to concise and
          compact representations as long as the approximation architecture is linear in the parame-
          ters. Further, with a tabular representation, LSPI oﬀers many advantages compared to any
          reinforcement-learning algorithm based on tabular representation and stochastic approxi-
          mation in terms of convergence, stability, and sample complexity.
           LSPIwouldbebestcharacterized as an oﬀ-line, oﬀ-policy learning algorithm since learn-
          ing is separated from execution and samples can be collected arbitrarily. On-line and on-
          policy versions of LSPI are also possible with minor modiﬁcations.
          8. Comparison to Other Methods
          LSPIis an approximate policy-iteration algorithm. Compared to other approximate policy-
          iteration algorithms in the actor-critic framework, LSPI eliminates the actor part of the
          architecture, thereby eliminating one potential source of error. The focus of the approxi-
          mation eﬀort is solely in the value-function representation, thus reducing ambiguity about
          the source of approximation errors. LSPI is also a model-free algorithm in the sense that it
          needs no access to a model to perform policy iteration, nor does it need to learn one.
           Traditional reinforcement-learning algorithms for control, such as SARSAlearning (Rum-
          mery and Niranjan, 1994; Sutton, 1996) and Q-learning (Watkins, 1989), lack any stability
          or convergence guarantees when combined with most forms of value-function approxima-
          tion. In many cases, their learned approximations may even diverge to inﬁnity. There are
          several factors that contribute to this phenomenon: the learning rate and its schedule, the
          exploration policy and its schedule, the initial value function, the distribution of samples,
          the order in which samples are presented, and the relative magnitude of the gradient-based
          adjustments to the parameters. LSPI on the other hand, enjoys the inherent soundness of
          approximate policy iteration.
           A desirable property for a reinforcement-learning algorithm is a low sample complex-
          ity. This is particularly important when samples are “expensive”, for example, when there
          is no generative model available and samples must be collected from the actual process
          in real-time, or when there is a generative model available but it is computationally ex-
          pensive. Most traditional reinforcement-learning algorithms use some sort of stochastic
          approximation. Unfortunately, stochastic approximation is sample-ineﬃcient. Each sample
          is processed once, contributes very small changes, and then is discarded. Given that the
          learning parameters of these algorithms operate on a very slow schedule to avoid insta-
          bilities, it is obvious that a huge number of samples is required. The experience replay
          technique (Lin, 1993), which stores samples and makes multiple passes over them, remedies
          this problem, but it does not really resolve it. In contrast, the approach taken by LSTD
          makes full use of all samples independently of their order.
                              1128
                                                   Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                         Even in cases where convergence is guaranteed or obtained fortuitously, stochastic ap-
                     proximation algorithms such as Q-learning, can also become problematic as they typically
                     require careful tuning of the learning rate and its schedule which often results in slow and
                     parameter-sensitive convergence behavior. The accuracy of the approximation at diﬀerent
                     states or state-action pairs is heavily dependent on the time, the order, and the frequency
                     of visitation.  In the context of linear value-function approximation, algorithms such as
                     Q-learning can be even more sensitive to the learning rate and its schedule. The use of a
                     single value for the learning rate across all parameters can become problematic when there
                     are large diﬀerences in the magnitude of the basis functions. If the learning rate is high, the
                     learning rule can make large changes for some parameters, risking oscillatory or divergent
                     behavior. On the other hand, if the learning rate is kept small to prevent such behavior,
                     the learning rule makes inconsequential changes to some parameters and learning becomes
                     extremely slow. While this can be mitigated by scaling the basis functions, the problem
                     remains since many natural choices (polynomials, for example) produce values that vary
                     widely over the state space. In contrast, LSPI has no parameters to tune and does not take
                     gradient steps, which means there is no risk of overshooting, oscillation, or divergence. LSPI
                     is also insensitive to the scale or relative magnitudes of the basis functions as it ﬁnds the
                     unique solution to a linear system in the span of the basis functions, which is not aﬀected
                     by scaling.
                         Compared to λ−policy iteration (Bertsekas and Tsitsiklis, 1996), there are some major
                     diﬀerences. λ−policy iteration collects new samples in each iteration to learn the state value
                     function and, as a consequence, access to a model for greedy action selection is necessary.
                     LSPI may collect samples only once and may reuse them at each iteration to learn the
                     state-action value function. LSPI does not need a model for action selection. However,
                     if there is a model available, it can be used in the context of LSTDQ to eliminate errors
                     attributable to sampling.
                         The adaptive policy-iteration (ADP) algorithm suggested by Bradtke (1993) for linear
                     quadratic regulation (LQR) is probably the algorithm that is closest to LSPI. Bradtke
                     suggests the use of recursive least-squares methods for estimating the state-action value
                     function of an LQR controller without a model and then a policy improvement step that
                     uses the value function to derive an improved controller in closed form. There are separate
                     representations for value functions and policies in ADP and the emphasis is on exploiting
                     the structure of an LQR problem to derive closed form solutions. Even though ADP is not
                     applicable to general MDPs, it shares some common themes with LSPI.
                         In comparison to the memory-based approach of Ormoneit and Sen (2002), LSPI makes
                     a better use of function approximation. Rather than trying to construct implicitly an
                     approximate model using kernels and smoothness assumptions, LSPI operates directly in
                     value-function space, performing the Bellman update and projection without any kind of
                     model. As noted also by Boyan (2002) in reference to LSTD, LSTDQ can be considered
                                                                                                              e
                     as a model-based method that learns a compressed model in the form of the A. This
                     relationship to model-based learning becomes explicit at the extreme of orthonormal basis
                     functions. The relationship is less clear in the general case and since there is no reason to
                                        e
                     assume that the A matrix will be a stochastic matrix, further investigation will be required
                     to relate this matrix to standard notions of a model.
                                                                    1129
                                 Lagoudakis and Parr
              In contrast to the variety of direct policy learning methods (Ng et al., 2000; Ng and
            Jordan, 2000; Baxter and Bartlett, 2001; Sutton et al., 2000; Konda and Tsitsiklis, 2000),
            LSPI oﬀers the strength of policy iteration. Policy search methods typically make a large
            number of relatively small steps of gradient-based policy updates to a parameterized policy
            function. Our use of policy iteration generally results in a small number of very large steps
            directly in policy space.
            9. Experimental Results
            LSPI was implemented9 using a combination of Matlab and C and was tested on the
            following problems: chain walk, inverted pendulum balancing, and bicycle balancing and
            riding. The chain walk class of problems has no signiﬁcant practical importance, but is
            particularly instructive as it is possible to compare the approximations learned by LSPI
            to the true underlying value functions, and therefore understand better the way the algo-
            rithm works. A particular simple task from this domain is also used to demonstrate that
            the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation is superior to the Bellman residual minimizing
            approximation. The other two domains are standard benchmark domains for reinforcement-
            learning algorithms featuring continuous state spaces and nonlinear dynamics. In each of
            these domains, the results of LSPI are compared to the results of Q-learning (Watkins,
            1989) and the results of Q-learning enhanced with experience replay (Lin, 1993).
            9.1 Chain Walk
            Initial tests were performed on the problematic MDP noted by Koller and Parr (2000), which
            consists of a chain with 4 states (numbered from 1 to 4) and is shown in Figure 9. There
            are two actions available, “left” (L) and “right” (R). The actions succeed with probability
            0.9, changing the state in the intented direction, and fail with probability 0.1, changing the
            state in the opposite direction; the two boundaries of the chain are dead-ends. The reward
            vector over states is (0,+1,+1,0) and the discount factor is set to 0.9. It is clear that the
            optimal policy is RRLL.
              Koller and Parr (2000) showed that, starting with the policy RRRR, a form of approx-
            imate policy iteration that combines learning of an approximate state value function using
            LSTD and exact policy improvement using the model oscillates between the suboptimal
            policies RRRR and LLLL. The linear architecture they used to represent the state value
            function was a linear combination of the following three basis functions:
                                        1 
                                   φ(s) =  s  ,
                                         s2
             9. The LSPI code distribution is publicly available for non-commercial purposes from the following URL:
              http://www.cs.duke.edu/research/AI/LSPI.
                                       1130
                                        Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                         0.1           0.1          0.1
                                0.1     0.9         0.9
                                                                   0.9
                                    R            R             R            R
                              L   1          2             3            4        0.9
                           0.9             L            L            L
                                       0.9          0.9           0.9   0.1
                               0.1                  0.1          0.1
                                 r=0        r=1           r=1           r=0
                                         Figure 9: The problematic MDP.
                where s is the state number. LSPI was applied on the same problem using the same basis
                                                                                           10
                functions repeated for each of the two actions so that each action gets its own parameters:
                                                  I(a=L)×1 
                                                  I(a=L)×s 
                                                             2 
                                                  I(a = L)×s 
                                         φ(s,a) =               .
                                                  I(a=R)×1 
                                                               
                                                  I(a=R)×s 
                                                    I(a = R)×s2
                   LSPItypically ﬁnds the optimal policy for this problem in 4 or 5 iterations. Samples for
                each run were collected in advance by choosing actions uniformly at random for about 25
                (or more) steps and the same sample set was used throughout all LSPI iterations in the run.
                Figure 10 shows the iterations of one run of LSPI on a training set of 50 samples. States
                are shown on the horizontal axis and Q values on the vertical axis. The approximations
                are shown with solid lines, whereas the exact values are connected with dashed lines. The
                values for action L are marked with ◦ and for action R with ∗. LSPI ﬁnds the optimal
                policy by the 2nd iteration, but it does not terminate until the 4th iteration, at which point
                the successive parameters (3rd and 4th iterations) are approximately equal. Notice that
                the approximations capture the qualitative structure of the value function, although the
                quantitative error is fairly big. The state visitation distribution for this training set was
                (0.24, 0.14, 0.28, 0.34). Although it was not perfectly uniform, it was “ﬂat” enough to
                prevent an extremely uneven allocation of approximation errors over the state-action space.
                   LSPIwasalsotestedonvariantsofthechainwalkproblemwithmorestatesanddiﬀerent
                reward schemes to better understand and illustrate its behavior. Figure 11 shows a run of
                LSPI on a 20-state chain with the same dynamics as above and a reward of +1 given only
                at the boundaries (states 1 and 20). The optimal policy in this case is to go left in states
                1–10 and right in states 11–20. LSPI converged to the optimal policy after 8 iterations
                using a single set of samples collected from a single episodes in which actions were chosen
                uniformly at random for 5000 steps. A polynomial of degree 4 was used for approximating
                the value function for each of the two actions, giving a block of 5 basis functions per action,
                10. I is the indicator function: I(true) = 1 and I(false) = 0.
                                                     1131
                                                  Lagoudakis and Parr
                               3                                 7
                                                                 6
                               2                                 5
                               1                                 4
                                                                 3
                               0                                 2
                              −1                                 1
                                1       2        3       4       01       2        3       4
                                    1st iteration: RRRR −> RLLL        2nd iteration: RLLL −> RRLL
                               8                                 8
                               6                                 6
                               4                                 4
                               2                                 2
                               01       2        3       4       01       2        3       4
                                    3rd iteration: RRLL −> RRLL        4th iteration: RRLL −> RRLL
                                     Figure 10: LSPI applied on the problematic MDP.
                  or a total of 10 basis functions. The initial policy was the policy that chooses left (L) in
                  all states. LSPI eventually discovered the optimal policy, although in iteration 2 it found
                  neither a good approximation to the value function nor an improved policy. This example
                  illustrates the non-monotonic nature of policy improvement between iterations of LSPI due
                  to value function approximation errors.
                      Figure 12 shows an example where LSPI fails to discover the optimal policy because of
                  limited representational ability of the linear architecture. In this 50-state chain, reward is
                  given only in states 10 and 41 and therefore due to the symmetry the optimal policy is to
                  go right in states 1–9 and 26–41 and left in states 10–25 and 42–50. Again, a polynomial of
                  degree 4 was used for each of the actions. Using a single training set of 10000 samples (all
                  from a single “random walk” trajectory), LSPI converged after 6 iterations to a suboptimal
                  policy that nevertheless resembles the optimal policy to a good extent. This failure can be
                  explained as an inability of the polynomial approximator to capture the precise structure
                  of the underlying value function. This behavior was fairly consistent with diﬀerent sample
                  sets and/or increased sample size. In all runs, LSPI converged in less than 10 iterations to
                  fairly good, but not optimal, policies.
                      Theperformance of LSPI improves with better linear approximation architectures. Fig-
                  ure 13 shows a run of LSPI on the same problem as above, but with a radial basis function
                  approximator (everything else is identical). This approximator uses 10 Gaussians (σ = 4)
                  with means spread uniformly over the state space plus a constant term for each of the 2
                  actions, resulting in a total of 22 basis functions. LSPI ﬁnds the optimal policy in 7 itera-
                  tions. With diﬀerent sample sets, LSPI consistently converges to the optimal policy (or to
                  minor deviations from the optimal policy) in less than 10 iterations.
                                                            1132
                                                                 Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                    10                                                         5
                                                                                               0
                                     5                                                        −5
                                                                                             −10
                                     0                                                       −15
                                                5         10         15         20                        5         10         15          20
                                                        Iteration1                                                Iteration2
                                     3                                                         8
                                     2                                                         6
                                     1                                                         4
                                     0                                                         2
                                                5         10         15         20             0          5         10         15          20
                                                        Iteration3                                                Iteration4
                                     8                                                         8
                                     6                                                         6
                                     4                                                         4
                                     2                                                         2
                                     0          5         10         15         20             0          5         10         15          20
                                                        Iteration5                                                Iteration6
                                     8                                                         8
                                     6                                                         6
                                     4                                                         4
                                     2                                                         2
                                     0          5         10         15         20             0          5         10         15          20
                                                        Iteration7                                                Iteration8
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                 5         10        15         20                         5         10         15         20
                                                        Iteration1                                                 Iteration2
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                 5         10        15         20                         5         10         15         20
                                                        Iteration3                                                 Iteration4
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                 5         10        15         20                         5         10         15         20
                                                        Iteration5                                                 Iteration6
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                                 5         10        15         20                         5         10         15         20
                                                        Iteration7                                                 Iteration8
                           Figure 11: LSPI iterations on a 20-state chain (reward only in states 1 and 20). Top: The
                                          state value function V π(s) = Q(s,π(s)) of the policy being evaluated in each
                                          iteration (LSPI approximation - solid line; exact values - dotted line). Bot-
                                          tom: The improved policy after each iteration (R action - dark/red shade; L
                                          action - light/blue shade; LSPI - top stripe; exact - bottom stripe).
                                                                                      1133
                                                      Lagoudakis and Parr
                      1                                                 1.5
                      0                                                  1
                     −1
                     −2                                                 0.5
                     −3                                                  0
                         5   10  15  20 25  30  35  40  45 50                5  10  15  20 25  30  35  40  45 50
                                       Iteration1                                         Iteration2
                      2
                                                                        1.5
                      1                                                  1
                                                                        0.5
                      0  5   10  15  20 25  30  35  40  45 50            0   5  10  15  20 25  30  35  40  45 50
                                       Iteration3                                         Iteration4
                     1.5                                                1.5
                      1                                                  1
                     0.5                                                0.5
                      0  5   10  15  20 25  30  35  40  45 50            0   5  10  15  20 25  30  35  40  45 50
                                       Iteration5                                         Iteration6
                           10      20      30     40      50                    10     20      30      40     50
                                     Iteration1                                           Iteration2
                           10      20      30     40      50                    10     20      30      40     50
                                     Iteration3                                           Iteration4
                           10      20      30     40      50                    10     20      30      40     50
                                     Iteration5                                           Iteration6
                    Figure 12: LSPI iterations on a 50-state chain with a polynomial approximator (reward
                                only in states 10 and 41). Top: The state-action value function of the policy
                                being evaluated in each iteration (LSPI approximation - solid lines; exact values
                                - dotted lines). Bottom: The improved policy after each iteration (R action -
                                dark/red shade; L action - light/blue shade; LSPI - top stripe; exact - bottom
                                stripe).
                                                                1134
                                                                  Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                            1.5                                                                   1.5
                                                                                                    1
                              1                                                                   0.5
                            0.5                                                                     0
                              0                                                                  −0.5
                                   5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                      5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration1                                                            Iteration2
                              4                                                                     4
                              2                                                                     2
                                                                                                    0
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                      5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration3                                                            Iteration4
                              4                                                                     4
                              2                                                                     2
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                 0    5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration5                                                            Iteration6
                              4
                              2
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50
                                                     Iteration7
                                     10         20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration1                                                              Iteration2
                                     10         20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration3                                                              Iteration4
                                     10         20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration5                                                              Iteration6
                                     10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration7
                           Figure 13: LSPI iterations on a 50-state chain with a radial basis function approximator
                                           (reward only in states 10 and 41). Top: The state-action value function of the
                                           policy being evaluated in each iteration (LSPI approximation - solid lines; exact
                                           values - dotted lines).            Bottom: The improved policy after each iteration (R
                                           action - dark/red shade; L action - light/blue shade; LSPI - top stripe; exact -
                                           bottom stripe).
                                                                                        1135
                                                                                                              Lagoudakis and Parr
                                               LSPI makes a call to LSTDQ, which learns the least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation
                                        to the state-action value function given a set of samples. Alternatively, LSPI could call some
                                        other learning procedure, similar to LSTDQ, which instead would learn the Bellman residual
                                        minimizing approximation. For this modiﬁed version of LSTDQ, the update equations for
                                        learning would be:
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                            e(t+1)              e(t)                                          00            00                                       0            0   |
                                                           A              =A + φ(s,a)−γφ s ,π(s )                                                       φ(s ,a ) −γφ s ,π(s )                                   ,
                                                                                                       t     t                   t          t                  t     t                  t          t
                                                                                          (t+1)            (t)                                        00           00  
                                                                                        e                e
                                                                                        b           =b + φ(s,a)−γφ s ,π(s ) r .
                                                                                                                                t     t                  t          t           t
                                               For comparison purposes, this modiﬁed version of LSPI was applied to the 50-state
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11
                                        problem discussed above (same parameters, same number and kind of training samples).
                                        Figure 14 and Figure 15 show the results for the polynomial and the radial basis function
                                        approximators respectively. In both cases, the approximations of the value function seem
                                        to be “close” to the true value functions. However, in both cases, this modiﬁed version of
                                        LSPIexhibits a non-convergent behavior (only the ﬁrst 8 iterations are shown). With either
                                        approximator, the iteration initially proceeds toward better policies, but fails to discover the
                                        optimal policy. The resulting policies are somewhat better with the radial basis function
                                        approximator, but in either case they are worse than the ones found by LSPI with the
                                        least-squares ﬁxed-point approximation. This behavior of LSPI combined with the Bellman
                                        residual minimizing approximation was fairly consistent and did not improve with increased
                                        sample size.
                                               It is not clear why the least-squares ﬁxed-point solution works better than the Bell-
                                        man residual minimizing solution. We conjecture that the ﬁxed-point solution preserves
                                        the “shape” of the value function (the relative magnitude between values) to some extent
                                        rather than trying to ﬁt the absolute values. In return, the improved policy from the ap-
                                        proximate value function is “closer” to the improved policy from the corresponding exact
                                        value function, and therefore policy iteration is guided to a direction of improvement. Of
                                        course, this point needs further investigation.
                                        9.2 Inverted Pendulum
                                        Theinverted pendulum problem requires balancing a pendulumof unknownlength andmass
                                        at the upright position by applying forces to the cart it is attached to. Three actions are
                                        allowed: left force LF (−50 Newtons), right force RF (+50 Newtons), or no force NF (0
                                        Newtons). All three actions are noisy; uniform noise in [−10,10] is added to the chosen
                                        action. The state space of the problem is continuous and consists of the vertical angle θ
                                                                                             ˙
                                        and the angular velocity θ of the pendulum. The transitions are governed by the nonlinear
                                        dynamics of the system (Wang et al., 1996) and depend on the current state and the current
                                        (noisy) control u:
                                                                                                                            ˙ 2
                                                                                  ¨        gsin(θ)−αml(θ) sin(2θ)/2−αcos(θ)u
                                                                                  θ =                            4l/3 −αmlcos2(θ)                                                ,
                                       11. To generate the necessary “doubled” samples, for each sample (s,a,r,s0) in the original set, another
                                              sample (s,a,r0,s00) was drawn from a generative model of the chain, resulting in twice as many total
                                              samples.
                                                                                                                                  1136
                                                                  Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                            1.5                                                                   1.5
                              1                                                                     1
                            0.5                                                                   0.5
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                 0    5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration1                                                            Iteration2
                            1.5                                                                     4
                              1                                                                     2
                            0.5
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                 0    5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration3                                                            Iteration4
                              2                                                                     4
                              1                                                                     2
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                 0    5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration5                                                            Iteration6
                            1.5                                                                     4
                              1                                                                     2
                            0.5
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                 0    5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration7                                                            Iteration8
                                     10         20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration1                                                              Iteration2
                                     10         20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration3                                                              Iteration4
                                     10         20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration5                                                              Iteration6
                                     10         20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration7                                                              Iteration8
                           Figure 14: Modiﬁed-LSPI iterations on the 50-state chain with the polynomial approxima-
                                           tor (reward only in states 10 and 41). Top: The state-action value function of
                                           the policy being evaluated in each iteration (LSPI approximation - solid lines;
                                           exact values - dotted lines). Bottom: The improved policy after each iteration
                                           (R action - dark/red shade; L action - light/blue shade; LSPI - top stripe; exact
                                           - bottom stripe).
                                                                                        1137
                                                                          Lagoudakis and Parr
                            1.5                                                                   1.5
                              1                                                                     1
                            0.5                                                                   0.5
                              0                                                                     0
                                   5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                      5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration1                                                            Iteration2
                              2                                                                     4
                              1                                                                     2
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                 0    5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration3                                                            Iteration4
                              4                                                                     4
                              2                                                                     2
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                 0    5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration5                                                            Iteration6
                              4                                                                     4
                              2                                                                     2
                              0    5   10    15   20   25   30    35   40   45   50                 0    5   10    15   20   25   30   35    40   45   50
                                                     Iteration7                                                            Iteration8
                                      10        20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration1                                                              Iteration2
                                      10        20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration3                                                              Iteration4
                                      10        20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration5                                                              Iteration6
                                      10        20        30         40        50                            10         20        30         40        50
                                                   Iteration7                                                              Iteration8
                           Figure 15: Modiﬁed-LSPI iterations on the 50-state chain with the radial basis function
                                           approximator (reward only in states 10 and 41). Top: The state-action value
                                           function of the policy being evaluated in each iteration (LSPI approximation -
                                           solid lines; exact values - dotted lines). Bottom: The improved policy after each
                                           iteration (R action - dark/red shade; L action - light/blue shade; LSPI - top
                                           stripe; exact - bottom stripe).
                                                                                        1138
                                             Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                   3000
                                          Best 
                                   2500
                                   2000
                                  Steps1500
                                   1000                                    Worst 
                                    500
                                     0 0   100  200  300  400  500  600  700  800 900  1000
                                                        Number of training episodes
                               Figure 16: Inverted pendulum (LSPI): Average balancing steps.
                  where g is the gravity constant (g = 9.8m/s2), m is the mass of the pendulum (m = 2.0
                  kg), M is the mass of the cart (M = 8.0 kg), l is the length of the pendulum (l = 0.5 m),
                  and α = 1/(m+M). The simulation step is set to 0.1 seconds. Thus, the control input is
                  given at a rate of 10 Hz, at the beginning of each time step, and is kept constant during
                  any time step. A reward of 0 is given as long as the angle of the pendulum does not exceed
                  π/2 in absolute value (the pendulum is above the horizontal line). An angle greater than
                  π/2 signals the end of the episode and a reward (penalty) of −1. The discount factor of the
                  process is set to 0.95.
                      We applied LSPI with a set of 10 basis functions for each of the 3 actions, thus a total
                  of 30 basis functions, to approximate the value function. These 10 basis functions included
                  a constant term and 9 radial basis functions (Gaussians) arranged in a 3 × 3 grid over the
                                                                                 ˙
                  2-dimensional state space. In particular, for some state s = (θ,θ) and some action a, all
                  basis functions were zero, except the corresponding active block for action a which was
                                            2            2             2                2
                                   ks−µ1k       ks−µ2k        ks−µ3k           ks−µ9k 
                                  −    2σ2      −   2σ2      −    2σ2          −   2σ2      |
                               1, e          , e           , e          , ... , e             ,
                  where the µ ’s are the 9 points of the grid {−π/4, 0, +π/4} ×{−1, 0, +1} and σ2 = 1.
                              i
                      Training samples were collected in advance from “random episodes”, that is, starting in
                  a randomly perturbed state very close to the equilibrium state (0,0) and following a policy
                  that selected actions uniformly at random. The average length of such episodes was about
                  6 steps, thus each one contributed about 6 samples to the set. The same sample set was
                  used throughout all iterations of each run of LSPI.
                      Figure 16 shows the performance of the control policies learned by LSPI as a function of
                  the number of training episodes. For each size of training episodes, the learned policy was
                                                            1139
                                                                    Lagoudakis and Parr
                                                50
                                                45
                                                                              Best 
                                                40
                                                35
                                                30                                                 Worst 
                                               Steps25
                                                20
                                                15
                                                10
                                                 5
                                                 0 0     100    200   300    400    500   600    700    800   900   1000
                                                                          Number of training episodes
                                      Figure 17: Inverted pendulum (Q-learning): Average balancing steps.
                         evaluated 1000 times to estimate accurately the average number of balancing steps (we do
                         not show conﬁdence intervals for this estimation). This experiment was repeated 100 times
                         for the entire horizontal axis to obtain average results and the 95% conﬁdence intervals
                         over diﬀerent sample sets. Each episode was allowed to run for a maximum of 3000 steps
                         corresponding to 5 minutes of continuous balancing in real-time. A run that balanced for
                         this period of time was considered to be successful.
                             LSPI returns very good policies given a few hundred training episodes. With 1000
                         training episodes the expected number of balancing steps is about 2850 steps. Failures
                         come mostly as a result of a bad distribution of samples, but that fades out as the number
                         of samples grows. Figure 16 shows also the worst and best policies obtained during the
                         entire experiment for each sample set size. Notice that excellent policies are occasionally
                         found with as few as 50 training episodes. With 1000 training episodes even the worst
                         policy could balance the pendulum for at least half the time.
                             The same experiment was repeated with Q-learning using the same linear architecture.
                         Samples were collected in the same manner and Q-learning performed a single pass through
                         the sample set at each run. The learning rate α was adjusted according to a typical schedule:
                                                                                   n0 +1
                                                                         α =α                ,
                                                                          t      0 n +t
                                                                                     0
                         where α is the initial value, α is the value at time step t, and n is a constant that controls
                                   0                           t                                          0
                         the decrease rate. In our experiment, we used α = 0.5 and n was set to an appropriate
                                                                                        0                 0
                         value so that α = 0.01 at the last sample in each run. The outcome is shown in Figure 17
                                            t
                         (notice the scale of the vertical axis). Q-learning did not succeed to balance the pendulum
                         for more than a few dozen steps, although there was an improving trend with more data.
                                                                                1140
                                                 Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                     3000
                                              Best 
                                     2500
                                     2000
                                    Steps1500
                                     1000                                 Worst 
                                      500
                                        0 0   100   200  300   400  500  600   700  800  900  1000
                                                            Number of training episodes
                             Figure 18: Inverted pendulum (Q-learning/ER): Average balancing steps.
                        The same experiment was also repeated with Q-learning and experience replay (ER).
                    In this case, Q-learning/ER was allowed to perform 100 passes through the samples while
                    the learning rate was adjusted according to the schedule above with α = 0.5 and n set
                                                                                              0             0
                    appropriatelly so that α = 0.01 at the last sample of the last pass in each run. This
                                              t
                    is similar to the way LSPI processes samples, although LSPI was allowed to run for a
                    maximum of only 20 iterations. Q-learning/ER performed very well, better than LSPI.
                    Figure 18 shows the average number of balancing steps. After about 400 training episodes
                    the learned policies are excellent with an expected number of balancing steps close to
                    3000. With 700 or more training episodes the expected number of balancing steps is about
                    3000 steps. Figure 18 shows also the worst and best policies obtained during the entire
                    experiment. Excellent policies are occasionally found with as few as 50 training episodes.
                    With 750 or more training episodes even the worst policy balances the pendulum almost all
                    the time. Thesuccess of Q-learning/ER in this case is mostly due to the benign nature of the
                    radial basis functions that are very well-behaved. These basis functions are automatically
                    normalized and their localized nature in conjunction with their magnitude are indicative of
                    the appropriate adjustment to each parameter.
                    9.3 Bicycle Balancing and Riding
                    The goal in the bicycle balancing and riding problem (Randløv and Alstrøm, 1998) is to
                    learn to balance and ride a bicycle to a target position located 1 km away from the starting
                                                                                       ◦
                    location. Initially, the bicycle’s orientation is at an angle of 90  to the goal. The state
                                                                            ˙
                    description is a six-dimensional real-valued vector (θ,θ,ω,ω˙,ω¨,ψ), where θ is the angle of
                    the handlebar, ω is the vertical angle of the bicycle, and ψ is the angle of the bicycle to
                    the goal. The actions are the torque τ applied to the handlebar (discretized to {−2,0,+2})
                                                                1141
                                                                   Lagoudakis and Parr
                                                1
                                              0.9
                                              0.8
                                              0.7
                                              0.6
                                              0.5
                                              0.4
                                             Probability of Success0.3
                                              0.2
                                              0.1
                                                0
                                                 0     500   1000   1500   2000  2500   3000   3500   4000   4500   5000
                                                                        Number of training episodes
                                             Figure 19: Bicycle (LSPI): Average probability of success.
                        and the displacement of the rider υ (discretized to {−0.02,0,+0.02}). In our experiments,
                                                                                                                           12
                        actions are restricted so that either τ = 0 or υ = 0 giving a total of 5 actions.                     The noise
                        in the system is a uniformly distributed term in [−0.02,+0.02] added to the displacement
                        component of the action. The dynamics of the bicycle are based on the model of Randløv
                        and Alstrøm (1998) and the time step of the simulation is set to 0.01 seconds.
                             The state-action value function Q(s,a) for a ﬁxed action a is approximated by a linear
                        combination of 20 basis functions:
                                            2     2                2    2                 2    2          2               2        |
                                                               ˙       ˙      ˙                                     ¯ ¯       ¯
                             ( 1, ω, ω˙, ω , ω˙ ,ωω˙, θ, θ, θ , θ , θθ, ωθ, ωθ , ω θ, ψ, ψ , ψθ, ψ, ψ , ψθ )                          ,
                                 ¯                                  ¯
                        where ψ = π − ψ for ψ > 0 and ψ = −π − ψ for ψ < 0. Note that the state variable ω¨
                        is completely ignored. This block of basis functions is repeated for each of the 5 actions,
                        giving a total of 100 basis functions (and parameters).
                             The average performance of control policies learned by LSPI is shown in Figures 19
                        and 20 as a function of the number of training episodes. Training samples were collected in
                        advance by initializing the bicycle to a small random perturbation from the initial position
                        (0,0,0,0,0,π/2) and running each episode up to 20 steps using a purely random policy.
                        The same sample set was used throughout each run of LSPI and convergence typically
                        was achieved in 6 to 8 iterations. For each size of training episodes, the learned policy
                        was evaluated 100 times in order to estimate the probability of success (reaching the goal)
                        and the average number of balancing steps (we provide no conﬁdence intervals for this
                        estimation).      This experiment was repeated 100 times for the entire horizontal axis to
                        obtain average results and the 95% conﬁdence intervals over diﬀerent sample sets. Each
                        episode was allowed to run for a maximum of 72000 steps corresponding to 2 kilometers of
                        riding distance. Episodes that reached the goal were considered to be successful.
                        12. Results are similar for the full 9-action case, but required more training data.
                                                                               1142
                                                              Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                                        4
                                                   8 x 10
                                                                 Best 
                                                   7
                                                   6
                                                   5
                                                  Steps4
                                                   3                                                 Worst 
                                                   2
                                                   1
                                                   00     500   1000   1500   2000   2500   3000  3500   4000   4500   5000
                                                                            Number of training episodes
                                            Figure 20: Bicycle (LSPI): Average number of balancing steps.
                              LSPI returns excellent policies given a few thousand training episodes.                              With 5000
                          training episodes (60000 samples) the probability of success is about 95% and the expected
                          number of balancing steps is about 70000 steps. Figure 20 shows also the worst and best
                          policies obtained during the entire experiment for each sample set size. Notice that excellent
                          policies that reach the goal are occasionally found with as few as 500 training episodes (10000
                          samples). With 5000 training episodes even the worst policy could balance the bicycle for
                          at least 1 km. Successful policies usually reached the goal riding a total distance of a little
                          over 1 km, near optimal performance.
                              Anannotated set of trajectories over the two-dimensional terrain is shown in Figure 21
                          to demonstrate the performance improvement over successive iterations of LSPI. This run
                          is based on 50000 samples collected from 2500 episodes. This LSPI run converged in 8
                          iterations.    The policy after the ﬁrst iteration balances the bicycle, but fails to ride to
                          the goal. The policy after the second iteration is heading towards the goal, but fails to
                          balance. All policies thereafter balance and ride the bicycle to the goal. Note that crashing
                          is occasionally possible even for good policies because of the noise in the input.
                              Anumberofdesign decisions inﬂuenced the performance of LSPI on the bicycle balanc-
                          ing and riding problem. As is typical with this problem, a shaping reward (Ng et al., 1999)
                          for the distance to the goal was used. In particular, the shaping reward was 1% of the net
                          change (in meters) in the distance to the goal. It was also observed that, in full random
                          trajectories, most of the samples were not very useful; except the ones at the beginning of
                          the trajectory, the rest occurred after the bicycle had already entered into a “death spiral”
                          from which recovery was impossible. This complicated the learning eﬀorts by biasing the
                          samples towards hopeless parts of the space, so it was decided to cut oﬀ trajectories after 20
                          steps. However, a new problem was created because there was no terminating reward signal
                          to indicate failure. This was approximated by an additional shaping reward, which was
                                                                                   1143
                                             Lagoudakis and Parr
                         200                                      6th iteration
                              Starting                               (crash) 
                              Position 
                          0
                                                       3rd  iteration 
                                 2nd iteration (crash) 
                                                                           Goal 
                        −200                                 5th and 7th
                                                                iteration 
                        −400                                               4th and 8th
                                                                              iteration 
                        −600
                                               1st iteration 
                        −800
                          −200     0      200     400     600     800     1000    1200
                                 Figure 21: Bicycle (LSPI): Trajectories of policies.
                proportional to the net change in the square of the vertical angle ω. This addition roughly
                approximated the likelihood of falling at the end of a truncated trajectory. Note, however,
                that the learning agent never sees these two shaping rewards separately; they are combined
                additively in a single numeric reward value. To verify that the learning problem had not
                be reduced through shaping to maximizing immediate reward, we reran some experiments
                using a discount factor of 0.0. In this case, LSTDQ simply projects the immediate reward
                function into the column space of the basis functions. If the problem were tweaked too
                much with shaping, acting to maximize the projected immediate reward would be suﬃcient
                to obtain good performance. On the contrary, these runs constantly produced immediate
                crashes in all trials. Finally, the discount factor was set to 0.8, which seemed to yield more
                robust performance.
                   The same experiment was repeated with Q-learning using the same linear architecture,
                however with each basis function normalized to [−1,1] to avoid divergence. Samples were
                collected in the same manner as in the LSPI case. Q-learning performed a single pass
                through the sample set at each run. The learning rate was adjusted according to the typical
                schedule described above with α = 0.5 and n set appropriately so that α = 0.005 at the
                                            0          0                       t
                last sample in each run. The outcome is shown in Figure 22. This algorithm did not succeed
                in riding the bicycle to the goal and was not able to balance the bicycle for very long either.
                Afew exceptional runs succeeded to balance the bicycle for a non-trivial number of steps,
                but did not make it to the goal.
                   The same experiment was also repeated with Q-learning and experience replay (ER).
                In this case, Q-learning/ER was allowed to perform 100 passes through the samples while
                the learning rate was adjusted according to the typical schedule with α = 0.5 and n set
                                                                             0           0
                appropriately so that α = 0.005 at the last sample of the last pass in each run. This was
                                    t
                                                     1144
                                                             Least-Squares Policy Iteration
                                               3000
                                               2500
                                               2000
                                              Steps1500
                                               1000
                                                500
                                                  00     500   1000   1500   2000   2500   3000  3500   4000   4500   5000
                                                                           Number of training episodes
                                              Figure 22: Bicycle (Q-learning): Average balancing steps.
                         similar to the way LSPI processed samples, although LSPI was allowed to run for a maxi-
                         mumof only 15 iterations. Q-learning/ER performed a little better than pure Q-learning,
                         but still nowhere close to LSPI. Figure 23 shows the average number of balancing steps.
                         Q-learning/ER was not able to ride the bicycle to the goal, although several times it man-
                         aged to balance for the entire period of the 72000 steps. There was however huge variance
                         and there is no clear evidence of improvement with additional samples. In this case, the
                         approximation architecture, although normalized, it is not nicely-behaved because of huge
                         diﬀerences in magnitude that are not necessarily indicative of the appropriate adjustment
                         to each parameter. Performance was also very sensitive to the settings of the learning rate.
                         The values used in the experiment above represent our best eﬀort in tuning the learning
                         rate appropriately.
                         10. Future Work
                         LSPI raises several issues and interesting questions that need further investigation. The
                         distribution of the training samples over the state-action space can have a signiﬁcant impact
                         on the performance of the algorithm. There are at least two relevant issues. The ﬁrst is the
                         fact that the approximate value function may be biased in favor of state-action pairs that
                         are sampled more frequently and against state-action pairs that are sampled infrequently.
                         This problem can be mitigated by density estimation techniques to reweigh the samples so
                         that a desired set of projection weights is achieved regardless of the initial distribution of
                         samples. The second and more serious issue is that our initial batch of samples may not
                         be suﬃciently representative, that is, some important states may never be visited. We note
                         that this problem appears in one form or another in all reinforcement-learning methods.
                         For example, Q-learning agents often must reach a goal state on a random walk before
                                                                                1145
                                                                    Lagoudakis and Parr
                                               3500
                                               3000
                                               2500
                                               2000
                                              Steps
                                               1500
                                               1000
                                                500
                                                  00     500   1000   1500   2000   2500   3000  3500   4000   4500   5000
                                                                           Number of training episodes
                                           Figure 23: Bicycle (Q-learning/ER): Average balancing steps.
                         any meaningful learning can occur. For LSPI, we would like to develop a more general
                         framework for sample collection that views the problem of acquiring new samples as an
                         active learning problem. This would encompass both determining the need for new samples
                         and the region of state-action space from which these samples are required.
                             In our experimental results presented in this paper we constructed linear architectures
                         by repeating the same block of basis functions (that depend only on the state) for each
                         of the actions and using indicator functions to activate the appropriate block, essentially
                         allowing for a separate set of parameters for each action. However, this is not the only
                         way to go and is deﬁnitely impractical for large action spaces. Alternatively, the linear
                         architecture can be constructed as a single block of basis functions that depend on both the
                         state and the action and the entire set of parameters is used by all actions.
                             The choice of basis functions is a fundamental problem in itself. In this paper, we ex-
                         plored only polynomial and radial basis functions, but many other options exist. Answering
                         this question seems to be very domain-speciﬁc and there is no universal choice that works
                         in all domains. LSPI relies on a good choice of basis function, and does not yet oﬀer a
                         method of recovering from a bad choice without user intervention. This is an important
                         area for future research.
                             In this paper, LSPI has been used as an oﬀ-line method; learning takes place after the
                         training samples have been collected. An online version of LSPI would have to update the
                         matrices and solve the system for every sample it experiences. Another, less expensive,
                         approach to online learning would maintain a window of the most recent experiences and
                         wouldupdatethematricesandsolvethesystematregularintervals. Exponentialwindowing
                         techniques may also be used to discount the inﬂuence of old experience. This approach is
                         yet to be explored, but has the potential to accomodate slowly changing environments.
                                                                                1146
                       Least-Squares Policy Iteration
           Other issues that we would like to explore include domains with continuous actions,
          alternative projections in value-function space, and other approximation architectures. We
          are also interested in extending the main ideas of LSPI for learning in other models of
          decision making that involve multiple agents, such as coordinated learning in team Markov
          decision processes and minimax learning in competitive Markov games.
          11. Conclusion
          We have presented the least-squares policy iteration (LSPI) algorithm, a new, model-free,
          oﬀ-line, reinforcement-learning algorithm for control problems. LSPI combines the policy
          search eﬃciency of approximate policy iteration with the data eﬃciency of least-squares
          temporal-diﬀerence learning. The algorithm eliminates the sensitive learning parameters of
          stochastic approximation methods and separates the main elements of practical reinforce-
          ment learning (sample collection, approximation architecture, solution method) in a way
          that allows for focused attention to each one of them individually.
           Our experimental results demonstrate the potential of LSPI. We achieved good perfor-
          mance on the pendulum and the bicycle tasks using a relatively small number of randomly
          generated samples that were reused across multiple steps of policy iteration. Achieving
          this level of performance with just a linear approximation architecture did require some
          tweaking, but the transparency of the linear architectures made the relevant issues much
          more obvious than would be the case with any “black box” function approximators.
           Webelieve that the direct approach to function approximation and data reuse taken by
          LSPIwillmakethealgorithmanintuitiveandeasy-to-useﬁrstchoiceformanyreinforcement-
          learning tasks of practical interest.
          Acknowledgments
          Wewouldlike to thank Jette Randløv and Preben Alstrøm for making the bicycle simulator
          available. We also thank Carlos Guestrin, Daphne Koller, Uri Lerner, and Michael Littman
          for helpful discussions. This work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation
          (NSF-grant-0209088). The ﬁrst author was also partially supported by the Lilian Boudouri
          Foundation in Greece.
          References
          Andrew G. Barto, Richard S. Sutton, and Charles W. Anderson. Neuronlike adaptive ele-
           ments that can solve diﬃcult learning control problems. IEEE Transactions on Systems,
           Man, and Cybernetics, 13(5):835–846, 1983.
          Jonathan Baxter and Peter L. Bartlett. Inﬁnite-horizon gradient-based policy search. Jour-
           nal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research, 15:319–350, 2001.
          Dimitri P. Bertsekas and John N. Tsitsiklis. Neuro-Dynamic Programming. Athena Scien-
           tiﬁc, Belmont, Massachusetts, 1996.
                              1147
                                                  Lagoudakis and Parr
                  Justin A. Boyan. Technical update: Least-squares temporal diﬀerence learning. Machine
                     Learning, 49(2-3):233–246, 2002.
                  Steven J. Bradtke. Reinforcement learning applied to linear quadratic regulation. In Ad-
                     vances in Neural Information Processing Systems 5: Proceedings of the 1992 Conference,
                     pages 295–302, Denver, Colorado, 1993.
                  Steven J. Bradtke and Andrew G. Barto. Linear least-squares algorithms for temporal
                     diﬀerence learning. Machine Learning, 22(2):33–57, 1996.
                  Arthur P. Dempster, Martin Schatzoﬀ, and Nanny Wermuth. A simulation study of al-
                     ternatives to ordinary least-squares. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 72
                     (357):77–91, 1977.
                  Ronald A. Howard. Dynamic Programming and Markov Processes. MIT Press, Cambridge,
                     Massachusetts, 1960.
                  Daphne Koller and Ronald Parr. Policy iteration for factored MDPs. In Proceedings of the
                     Sixteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 326–334, Stanford,
                     California, 2000.
                  Vijay R. Konda and John Tsitsiklis. Actor-critic algorithms. In Advances in Neural In-
                     formation Processing Systems 12: Proceedings of the 1999 Conference, pages 1008–1014,
                     Denver, Colorado, 2000.
                  Long-Ji Lin.   Reinforcement Learning for Robots Using Neural Networks.    PhD thesis,
                     Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 1993.
                  R´emi Munos. Errorboundsforapproximatepolicyiteration. InProceedings of the Twentieth
                     International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 560–567, Washington, District of
                     Columbia, 2003.
                  Angelia Nedi´c and Dimitri P. Bertsekas. Least-squares policy evaluation algorithms with lin-
                     ear function approximation. Discrete Event Dynamic Systems: Theory and Applications,
                     13(1–2):79–110, 2003.
                  Andrew Y. Ng, Daishi Harada, and Stuart Russell. Policy invariance under reward trans-
                     formations: Theory and application to reward shaping. In Proceedings of the Sixteenth
                     International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 278–287, Bled, Slovenia, 1999.
                  Andrew Y. Ng and Michael Jordan. PEGASUS: A policy search method for large MDPs
                     and POMDPs. In Proceedings of the Sixteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artiﬁcial
                     Intelligence, pages 406–415, Stanford, California, 2000.
                  Andrew Y. Ng, Ronald Parr, and Daphne Koller. Policy search via density estimation. In
                     Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 12: Proceedings of the 1999 Confer-
                     ence, pages 1022–1028, Denver, Colorado, 2000.
                  Dirk Ormoneit and Saunak Sen. Kernel-based reinforcement learning. Machine Learning,
                     49(2–3):161–178, 2002.
                                                            1148
                       Least-Squares Policy Iteration
          Doina Precup, Richard Sutton, and Sanjoy Dasgupta. Oﬀ-policy temporal diﬀerence learn-
           ing with function approximation. In Proceedings of the Eighteenth International Confer-
           ence on Machine Learning, pages 417–424, Williamstown, Massachusetts, 2001.
          Jette Randløv and Preben Alstrøm. Learning to drive a bicycle using reinforcement learn-
           ing and shaping. In Proceedings of The Fifteenth International Conference on Machine
           Learning, pages 463–471, Madison, Wisconsin, 1998.
          GavinA.RummeryandMahesanNiranjan. On-lineQ-learningusingconnectionist systems.
           Technical Report CUED/F-INFENG/TR 166, Engineering Department, Cambridge Uni-
           versity, Cambridge, United Kingdom, 1994.
          Paul J. Schweitzer and Abraham Seidmann. Generalized polynomial approximations in
           Markovian decision processes. Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications, 110
           (6):568–582, 1985.
          Richard Sutton and Andrew Barto. Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction. MIT Press,
           Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1998.
          Richard Sutton, David McAllester, Satinder Singh, and Yishay Mansour. Policy gradient
           methods for reinforcement learning with function approximation. In Advances in Neural
           Information Processing Systems 12: Proceedings of the 1999 Conference, pages 1057–
           1063, Denver, Colorado, 2000.
          Richard S. Sutton. Temporal Credit Assignment in Reinforcement Learning. PhD thesis,
           University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts, 1984.
          Richard S. Sutton. Generalization in reinforcement learning: Successful examples using
           sparse coarse coding. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 8: Proceed-
           ings of the 1995 Conference, pages 1038–1044, Denver, Colorado, 1996.
          Hua O. Wang, Kazuo Tanaka, and Michael F. Griﬃn. An approach to fuzzy control of
           nonlinear systems: Stability and design issues. IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, 4
           (1):14–23, 1996.
          Christopher J. C. H. Watkins. Learning from Delayed Rewards. PhD thesis, Cambridge
           University, Cambridge, United Kingdom, 1989.
          Ronald J. Williams and Leemon C. Baird. Tight performance bounds on greedy policies
           based on imperfect value functions. Technical Report NU-CCS-93-14, College of Com-
           puter Science, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts, 1993.
                              1149
