                                                     Model         MNIST         TFD
                                                    DBN[3]         138±2       1909±66
                                                 Stacked CAE [3]  121±1.6     2110±50
                                                  DeepGSN[6]      214±1.1      1890±29
                                                 Adversarial nets  225±2      2057±26
                        Table 1: Parzen window-based log-likelihood estimates. The reported numbers on MNIST are the mean log-
                        likelihood of samples on test set, with the standard error of the mean computed across examples. On TFD, we
                        computed the standard error across folds of the dataset, with a different σ chosen using the validation set of
                        each fold. On TFD, σ was cross validated on each fold and mean log-likelihood on each fold were computed.
                        For MNISTwecompareagainstothermodelsofthereal-valued (rather than binary) version of dataset.
                        of the Gaussians was obtained by cross validation on the validation set. This procedure was intro-
                        duced in Breuleux et al. [8] and used for various generative models for which the exact likelihood
                        is not tractable [25, 3, 5]. Results are reported in Table 1. This method of estimating the likelihood
                        has somewhat high variance and does not perform well in high dimensional spaces but it is the best
                        methodavailabletoourknowledge. Advancesingenerativemodelsthatcansamplebutnotestimate
                        likelihood directly motivate further research into how to evaluate such models.
                        In Figures 2 and 3 we show samples drawn from the generator net after training. While we make no
                        claimthatthesesamplesarebetterthansamplesgeneratedbyexistingmethods,webelievethatthese
                        samples are at least competitive with the better generative models in the literature and highlight the
                        potential of the adversarial framework.
                                              a)                                          b)
                                              c)                                          d)
                        Figure 2: Visualization of samples from the model. Rightmost column shows the nearest training example of
                        the neighboring sample, in order to demonstrate that the model has not memorized the training set. Samples
                        are fair random draws, not cherry-picked. Unlike most other visualizations of deep generative models, these
                        imagesshowactualsamplesfromthemodeldistributions,notconditionalmeansgivensamplesofhiddenunits.
                        Moreover, these samples are uncorrelated because the sampling process does not depend on Markov chain
                        mixing. a) MNIST b) TFD c) CIFAR-10 (fully connected model) d) CIFAR-10 (convolutional discriminator
                        and “deconvolutional” generator)
                                                                    6
