                    Quantifying the Rise and Fall of Complexity in Closed Systems:
                                                    The Coﬀee Automaton
                                                    ∗                         †                           ‡
                                  Scott Aaronson            Sean M. Carroll           Lauren Ouellette
                                                                 Abstract
                          In contrast to entropy, which increases monotonically, the “complexity” or “interestingness”
                       of closed systems seems intuitively to increase at ﬁrst and then decrease as equilibrium is ap-
                       proached. For example, our universe lacked complex structures at the Big Bang and will also
                       lack them after black holes evaporate and particles are dispersed.   This paper makes an ini-
                       tial attempt to quantify this pattern.  As a model system, we use a simple, two-dimensional
                       cellular automaton that simulates the mixing of two liquids (“coﬀee” and “cream”). A plausi-
                       ble complexity measure is then the Kolmogorov complexity of a coarse-grained approximation
                       of the automaton’s state, which we dub the “apparent complexity.” We study this complexity
                       measure, and show analytically that it never becomes large when the liquid particles are non-
                       interacting. By contrast, when the particles do interact, we give numerical evidence that the
                       complexity reaches a maximum comparable to the “coﬀee cup’s” horizontal dimension.         We
                       raise the problem of proving this behavior analytically.
                                                                                                           CALT-68-2927
                 1    Introduction
                 Imagine a cup of coﬀee into which cream has just been poured. At ﬁrst, the coﬀee and cream are
                 separated. Over time, the two liquids diﬀuse until they are completely mixed. If we consider the
                 coﬀee cup a closed system, we can say that its entropy is increasing over time, in accordance with
                 the second law of thermodynamics. At the beginning, when the liquids are completely separated,
                 the system is in a highly ordered, low-entropy state.      After time has passed and the liquids have
                 completely mixed, all of the initial structure is lost; the system has high entropy.
                     Just as we can reason about the disorder of the coﬀee cup system, we can also consider its
                 “complexity.” Informally, by complexity we mean the amount of information needed to describe
                 everything “interesting” about the system. At ﬁrst, when the cream has just been poured into the
                 coﬀee, it is easy to describe the state of the cup: it contains a layer of cream on top of a layer of
                 coﬀee. Similarly, it is easy to describe the state of the cup after the liquids have mixed: it contains
        arXiv:1405.6903v1  [cond-mat.stat-mech]  27 May 2014a uniform mixture of cream and coﬀee. However, when the cup is in an intermediate state—where
                    ∗MIT. Email: aaronson@csail.mit.edu.   This material is based upon work supported by the National Science
                 Foundation under Grant No. 0844626, as well as an NSF Waterman Award.
                    †Walter Burke Institute for Theoretical Physics, Caltech. Email: seancarroll@gmail.com. This research is funded
                 in part by DOE grant DE-FG02-92ER40701, and by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation through Grant 776 to
                 the Caltech Moore Center for Theoretical Cosmology and Physics.
                    ‡This work was done while the author was a student at MIT. Email: louelle@alum.mit.edu.
                                                                     1
