                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (b)                                                                        (c)
                                                                                                                          (a)
                                                                    Source
                                                                    Corrected
                                                                                                                                   1.0                                                                                        1.0                                                                         π 
                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                        0.5                                                                        0.0
                                                                    Reference
                                                                                                                                   -1.                                                                                        0.0                                                                        −π
                                                                Figure 3: Our PDE scenarios cover a wide range of behavior including (a) vortex shedding, (b)
                                                                complex buoyancy effects, and (c) advection-diffusion systems. Shown are different time steps (l.t.r.)
                                                                in terms of vorticity for (a), transported density for (b), and angle of velocity direction for (c).
                                                                UnsteadyWakeFlow ThePDEscenarioforunsteadywakeﬂowsrepresentsastandardbenchmark
                                                                case for ﬂuids [44, 40] and involves a continuous inﬂow with a ﬁxed, circular obstacle, which induces
                                                                downstreamvortexsheddingwithdistinct frequencies depending on the Reynolds number. For coarse
                                                                discretizations, the approximation errors distort the ﬂow leading to deteriorated motions or suppressed
                                                                vortex shedding altogether. An example ﬂow conﬁguration is shown in Fig. 3a. In this scenario, the
                                                                simplest method (NON) yields stable training and a model that already reduces the mean absolute
                                                                error (MAE) from 0.146 for a regular simulation without correction (SRC) to an MAE of 0.049 when
                                                                applying the learned correction. The pre-computed correction (PRE) improves on this behavior via its
                                                                time regularization with an error of 0.031. A SOL                                                                        modeltrainedwithadifferentiable physics solver
                                                                                                                                                                                   32
                                                                for 32 time steps in each iteration of ADAM yields a signiﬁcantly lower error of 0.013. This means,
                                                                the numerical errors of the source simulation w.r.t. the reference were reduced by more than a factor
                                                                of 10. Despite the same architecture and weight count for all three models, the overall performance
                                                                varies strongly, with the SOL                                                version outperforming the simpler variants by 73% and more. An
                                                                                                                                       32
                                                                example of the further evaluations provided in the appendix is given in Fig. 4h.
                                                                Buoyancy-driven Flow                                           Weevaluate buoyancy-driven ﬂows as a scenario with increased complex-
                                                                ity. In addition to an incompressible ﬂuid, a second, non-uniform marker quantity is advected with
                                                                the ﬂow that exerts a buoyancy force. This coupled system of equations leads to interesting and
                                                                complex swirling behavior over time. We additionally use this setup to highlight that the reference
                                                                solutions can be obtained with different discretization schemes. We use a higher-order advection
                                                                schemeinaddition to a 4× ﬁner spatial discretization to compute the reference data.
                                                                Interestingly, the correction functions beneﬁt from particularly long rollouts at training time in this
                                                                scenario. Models with simple pre-computed or unaltered trajectories yield mean errors of 1.37 and
                                                                1.07 comparedtoanerrorof1.59forthesourcesimulation,respectively. Instead, amodeltrainedwith
                                                                differentiable physics with 128 steps (SOL                                                                ) successfully reduces the error to 0.62, an improvement
                                                                                                                                                                   128
                                                                of more than 59% compared to the unmodiﬁed simulation.
                                                                Forced Advection-Diffusion                                                  Athird scenario employs Burger’s equation as a physical model. We
                                                                mimic the setup from previous work [4] to inject energy into the system via a forcing term with a
                                                                spectrum of sine waves. This forcing prevents the system from dissipating to relatively static and
                                                                slowly moving conﬁgurations. While the PRE and NON versions yield clear improvements, the SOL
                                                                versions do not signiﬁcantly outperform the simpler baselines. This illustrates a limitation of long
                                                                rollouts via differentiable physics: Learned correction functions need to be able to anticipate future
                                                                behavior to make high-quality corrections. The randomized forcing in this example severely limits
                                                                the number of future steps that can accurately be predicted given one state. This behavior contrasts
                                                                with other physical systems without external disturbances, where a single state uniquely determines
                                                                its evolution. We show in the appendix that the SOL models with an increased number of interaction
                                                                steps pay off when the external disturbances are absent.
                                                                ConjugateGradientSolver                                                   Weturntoiterative solvers for linear systems of equations to illustrate
                                                                another aspect of learning from differentiable physics: its importance for the propagation of boundary
                                                                condition effects. As our learning objective, we target the inference of initial guesses for CG solvers
                                                                [22]. Following previous work [57], we target Poisson problems of the form ∇ · ∇p = ∇ · u, which
                                                                arise for projections of a velocity u to a divergence-free state. Instead of fully relying on an ANN
                                                                                                                                                                                    6
