        A EvaluationPrompts
          Evaluation Prompts: OCR Prompt
          OCRPrompt:
          "Write out the multiple-choice question in the image and then solve it. The last line of your response should be of the
          following format: ’Answer: $LETTER’ (without quotes) where LETTER is one of the options. Think step by step
          before answering."
          w/oOCRPrompt:
          "Answer the following multiple-choice question in the image. The last line of your response should be of the following
          format: ’Answer: $LETTER’ (without quotes) where LETTER is one of the options. Think step by step before
          answering."
          Evaluation Prompts: Direct vs CoT
          Direct:
          "Answerdirectly with the option letter from the given choices."
          CoT:
          "Answer the following multiple-choice question. The last line of your response should be of the following format:
          ’Answer: $LETTER’(without quotes) where LETTER is one of the options. Think step by step before answering."
          Evaluation Prompts: OCR Task
          OCRTaskPrompt:
          "Extract and output the full text of the question, including any introductory descriptions, as well as the corresponding
          answer choices from the multiple-choice question in the image. Exclude any text from associated images or the question
          number. Perform OCR only; do not attempt to solve the question."
          Evaluation Prompts: Split Response Task
          Split Response Task Prompt:
          Yourtask is to split the given answer into two distinct parts: the part that describes the question and the part that analyzes
          the answer. This is a splitting task, so ensure you do not omit any content or generate any additional content not present
          in the input. Follow these guidelines:
          1. Description of the Question:
          - Extract the portion of the answer that describes the question being addressed.
          - Ensure that this part is clear and provides enough context to understand the question.
          2. Analysis of the Answer:
          - Extract the portion of the answer that provides the analysis or reasoning behind the answer.
          - Ensure that this part is detailed and provides a complete explanation or solution.
          Please split the following answer into the two parts described above and output them in JSON format:
          Answer: $LETTER
          {
          "description_of_question": "Extracted description of the question",
          "analysis_of_answer": "Extracted analysis of the answer"
          }
                                 15148
