           [Reproduced by permission of the Rockefeller Foundation Archives.] 
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
               The attached memorandum on translation from one language 
          to another, and on the possibility of contributing to this process 
          by the use of modern computing devices of very high speed, capacity, 
          and logical flexibility, has been written with one hope only - that 
          it might possibly serve in some small way as a stimulus to someone 
          else, who would have the techniques, the knowledge, and the 
          imagination to do something about it. 
               I have worried a good deal about the probable naivete of 
          the ideas here presented; but the subject seems to me so important 
          that I am willing to expose my ignorance, hoping that it will be 
          slightly shielded by my intentions. 
                               Warren Weaver 
                                                    The Rockefeller Foundation 
                               49 West 49th Street 
                               New York 20, New York 
                         TRANSLATION 
     l) Preliminary Remarks 
             There is no need to do more than mention the obvious fact that a 
       multiplicity of language impedes cultural interchange between the peoples 
       of the earth, and is a serious deterrent to international understanding. 
       The present memorandum, assuming the validity and importance of this fact, 
       contains some comments and suggestions bearing on the possibility of 
       contributing at least something to the solution of the world-wide transla- 
       tion problem through the use of electronic computers of great capacity, 
       flexibility, and speed. 
             The suggestions of this memorandum will surely be incomplete and 
       naïve, and may well be patently silly to an expert in the field - for the 
       author is certainly not such. 
     2) A War Anecdote - Language Invarients 
            During the war a distinguished mathematician whom we will call 
       P, an ex-German who had spent some time at the University of Istanbul and 
       had learned Turkish there, told W.W. the following story. 
            A mathematical colleague, knowing that P had an amateur interest 
       in cryptography, came to P one morning, stated that he had worked out a 
       deciphering technique, and asked P to cook up some coded message on which 
       he might try his scheme. P wrote out in Turkish a message containing about 
       100 words; simplified it by replacing the Turkish letters ç, ğ, ĭ, ö, ş, 
       and ü by c, g, i, o, s, and u respectively; and then, using something more 
       complicated than a simple substitution cipher, reduced the message to a 
       column of five digit numbers. The next day (and the time required is 
       significant) the colleague brought his result back, and remarked that they 
       had apparently not had success. But the sequence of letters he reported, 
                        - 2 - 
     when properly broken up into words, and when mildly corrected (not enough 
     correction being required really to bother anyone who knew the language 
     well), turned out to be the original message in Turkish. 
           The most important point, at least for present purposes, is that 
     the decoding was done by someone who did not know Turkish, and did not 
     know that the message was in Turkish. One remembers, by contrast, the 
     well-known instance in World War I when it took our cryptographic forces 
     weeks or months to determine that a captured message was coded from 
     Japanese; and then took them a relatively short time to decipher it, once 
     they knew what the language was. 
           During the war, when the whole field of cryptography was so 
     secret, it did not seem discreet to inquire concerning details of this 
     story; but one could hardly avoid guessing that this process made use of 
     frequencies of letters, letter combinations, intervals between letters 
     and letter combinations, letter patterns, etc., which are to some 
     significant degree independent of the language used. This at once leads 
     one to suppose that, in the manifold instances in which man has invented 
     and developed languages, there are certain invariant properties which are, 
     again not precisely but to some statistically useful degree, common to 
     all languages. 
          This may be, for all I know, a famous theorem of philology. 
     Indeed the well-known bow-wow, woof-woof, etc. theories of Müller and 
     others, for the origin of languages, would of course lead one to expect 
     common features in all languages, due to their essentially similar mechanism 
     of development. And, in any event, there are obvious reasons which make 
     the supposition a likely one. All languages - at least all the ones under 
     consideration here - were invented and developed by men; and all men, 
                            - 3 - 
     whether Bantu or Greek, Islandic or Peruvian, have essentially the same 
     equipment to bring to bear on this problem. They have vocal organs 
     capable of producing about the same set of sounds (with minor exceptions, 
     such as the glottal click of the African native). Their brains are of 
     the same general order of potential complexity. The elementary demands 
     for language must have emerged in closely similar ways in different places 
     and perhaps at different times. One would expect wide superficial differ- 
     ences; but it seems very reasonable to expect that certain basic, and 
     probably very non-obvious, aspects be common to all the developments. It 
     is just a little like observing that trees differ very widely in many 
     characteristics, and yet there are basic common characteristics - certain 
     essential qualities of "tree-ness," - that all trees share, whether they 
     grow in Poland, or Ceylon, or Colombia. Furthermore (and this is the 
     important point) a South American has, in general, no difficulty in 
     recognizing that a Norwegian tree is a tree. 
           The idea of basic common elements in all languages later received 
     support from a remark which the mathematician and logician Reichenbach made 
     to W.W.  Reichenbach also spent some time in Istanbul, and like many of 
     the German scholars who went there, he was perplexed and irritated by the 
     Turkish language. The grammar of that language seemed to him so grotesque 
     that eventually he was stimulated to study its logical structure. This, 
     in turn, led him to become interested in the logical structure of the 
     grammar of several other languages; and quite unaware of W.W.'s interest 
     in the subject, Reichenbach remarked, "I was amazed to discover that for 
     (apparently) widely varying languages, the basic logical structures have 
     important common features." Reichenbach said he was publishing this, and 
     would send the material to W.W.; but nothing has ever appeared. 
                           - 4 - 
            One suspects that there is a great deal of evidence for this 
       general viewpoint - at least bits of evidence appear spontaneously even 
       to one who does not see the relevant literature. For example, a note in 
       Science, about the research in comparative semantics of Erwin Reifler of 
       Washington University, states that "the Chinese words for 'to shoot' and 
       'to dismiss' show a remarkable phonological and graphic agreement." This 
       all seems very strange until one thinks of the two means of "to fire" in 
       English. Is this only happenstance? How widespread are such correlations? 
    3) Translation and Computers 
            Having had considerable exposure to computer design problems 
       during the war, and being aware of the speed, capacity, and logical 
       flexibility possible in modern electronic computers, it was very natural 
       for W.W. to think, several years ago, of the possibility that such computers 
       be used for translation. On March 4, 1947, after having turned this idea 
       over for a couple of years, W.W. wrote to Professor Norbert Wiener of 
       Massachusetts Institute of Technology as follows: 
               "One thing I wanted to ask you about is this. A most 
            serious problem, for UNESCO and for the constructive and 
            peaceful future of the planet, is the problem of translation, 
            as it unavoidably affects the communication between peoples. 
            Huxley has recently told me that they are appalled by the 
            magnitude and the importance of the translation job. 
               "Recognizing fully, even though necessarily vaguely, 
            the semantic difficulties because of multiple meanings, etc., 
            I have wondered if it were unthinkable to design a computer 
            which would translate. Even if it would translate only 
            scientific material (where the semantic difficulties are 
            very notably less), and even if it did produce an inelegant 
            (but intelligible) result, it would seem to me worth while. 
               "Also knowing nothing official about, but having guessed 
            and inferred considerable about, powerful new mechanized 
            methods in cryptography - methods which I believe succeed 
            even when one does not know what language has been coded - 
            one naturally wonders if the problem of translation could 
            conceivably be treated as a problem in cryptography. When 
            I look at an article in Russian, I say "This is really written 
            in English, but it has been coded in some strange symbols. 
            I will now proceed to decode. 
                           - 5 - 
              "Have you ever thought about this? As a linguist and 
           expert on computers, do you think it is worth thinking about?" 
           Professor Wiener, in a letter dated April 30, 1947, said in 
     reply: 
              "Second - as to the problem of mechanical translation, 
           I frankly am afraid the boundaries of words in different 
           languages are too vague and the emotional and international 
           connotations are too extensive to make any quasi mechanical 
           translation scheme very hopeful. I will admit that basic 
           English seems to indicate that we can go further than we 
           have generally done in the mechanization of speech, but you 
           must remember that in certain respects basic English is the 
           reverse of mechanical and throws upon such words as 'get,' 
           a burden, which is much greater than most words carry in 
           conventional English. At the present time, the mechanization 
           of language, beyond such a stage as the design of photoelectric 
           reading opportunities for the blind, seems very premature. 
           By the way, I have been fascinated by McCulloch's work on 
           such apparatus, and, as you probably know, he finds the wiring 
           diagram of apparatus of this kind turns out to be surprisingly 
           like the microscopic analogy of the visual cortex in the brain." 
           To this, W.W. replied on May 9, 1947: 
             "I am disappointed but not surprised by your comments on 
           the translation problem. The difficulty you mention concerning 
           Basic seems to me to have a rather easy answer. It is, of 
           course, true that Basic puts multiple use on an action verb 
           such as 'get.'  But even so, the two-word combinations such 
           as 'get up,' 'get over,' 'get back,' etc., are, in Basic, not 
           really very numerous. Suppose we take a vocabulary of 2,000 
           words, and admit for good measure all the two-word combinations 
           as if they were single words. The vocabulary is still only 
           four million: and that is not so formidable a number to a 
           modern computer, is it?" 
           Thus this attempt to interest Wiener, who seemed so ideally 
     equipped to consider the problem, failed to produce any real result. This 
     must in fact be accepted as exceedingly discouraging, for if there are any 
     real possibilities, one would expect Wiener to be just the person to 
     develop them. 
           The idea has, however, been seriously considered elsewhere. 
     The first instance known to W.W., subsequent to his own notion about it, 
     was described in a memorandum dated February 12, 1948, written by 
                        - 6 - 
     Dr. Andrew D. Booth who, in Professor J. D. Bernal's department in Birkbeck 
     College, University of London, had been active in computer design and 
     construction. Dr. Booth said: 
              "A concluding example, of possible application of the 
           electronic computer, is that of translating from one language 
           into another. We have considered this problem in some detail 
           and it transpires that a machine of the type envisaged could 
           perform this function without any modification in its design." 
           On May 25, 1948, W.W. visited Dr. Booth in his computer laboratory 
     at Welwyn, London; and learned that Dr. Richens, Assistant Director of the 
     Bureau of Plant Breeding and Genetics, and much concerned with the abstracting 
     problem, had been interested with Dr. Booth in the translation problem. They 
     had, at least at that time, not been concerned with the problem of multiple 
     meaning, word order, idiom, etc.; but only with the problem of mechanizing 
     a dictionary. Their proposal then was that one first "sense" the letters 
     of a word, and have the machine see whether or not its memory contains 
     precisely the word in question. If so, the machine simply produces the 
     translation (which is the rub; of course "the" translation doesn't exist) 
     of this word. If this exact word is not contained in the memory, then the 
     machine discards the last letter of the word, and tries over. If this fails, 
     it discards another letter, and tries again. After it has found the largest 
     initial combination of letters which is in the dictionary, it "looks up" the 
     whole discarded portion in a special "grammatical annex" of the dictionary. 
     Thus confronted by "running," it might find "run" and then find out what the 
     ending (n) ing does to "run." 
           Thus their interest was, at least at that time, confined to the 
     problem of the mechanization of a dictionary which in a reasonably efficient 
     way would handle all forms of all words. W.W. has no more recent news of 
     this affair. 
                  - 7- 
             Very recently the newspapers have carried stories of the use of 
    one of the California computers as a translator. The published reports do 
    not indicate much more than a word-into-word sort of translation, and there 
    has been no indication, at least that W.W. has seen, of the proposed manner 
    of handling the problems of multiple meaning, context, word order, etc. 
          This last named attempt, or planned attempt, has already drawn 
    forth inevitable scorn; Mr. Max Zeldner, in a letter to the Herald Tribune 
    on June 13, 1949, stating that the most you could expect of a machine trans- 
    lation of the fifty-five Hebrew words which form the 23rd Psalm would start 
    out "Lord my shepherd no I will lack," and would close "But good and kindness 
    he will chase me all days of my life; and I shall rest in the house of Lord 
    to length days." Mr. Zeldner points out that a great Hebrew poet once said 
    that translation "is like kissing your sweetheart through a veil." 
         It is, in fact, amply clear that a translation procedure that does 
    little more than handle a one-to-one correspondence of words can not hope to 
    be useful for problems of "literary" translation, in which style is important, 
    and in which the problems of idiom, multiple meanings, etc., are frequent. 
          Even this very restricted type of translation may, however, very 
    well have important use. Large volumes of technical material might, for 
    example, be usefully, even if not at all elegantly, handled this way. Technical 
    writing is unfortunately not always straight-forward and simple in style; but 
    at least the problem of multiple meaning is enormously simpler. In mathematics, 
    to take what is probably the easiest example, one can very nearly say that each 
    word, within the general context of a mathematical article, has one and only 
    one meaning, 
  4) The Future of Computer Translation 
         The foregoing remarks about computer translation schemes which have 
    been reported, do not however seem to W.W. to give an appropriately hopeful 
                           - 8 - 
     indication of what the future possibilities may be. Those possibilities 
     should doubtless be indicated by persons who have special knowledge of 
     languages and of their comparative anatomy. But again at the risk of being 
     foolishly naïve, it seems interesting to indicate four types of attack, on 
     levels of increasing sophistication. 
   5) Meaning and Context 
           First, let us think of a way in which the problem of multiple 
     meaning can, in principle at least, be solved. If one examines the words 
     in a book, one at a time as through an opaque mask with a hole in it one 
     word wide, then it is obviously impossible to determine, one at a time, the 
     meaning of the words. "Fast" may mean "rapid"; or it may mean "motionless"; 
     and there is no way of telling which. 
           But if one lengthens the slit in the opaque mask, until one can 
     see not only the central word in question, but also say N words on either 
     side, then if N is large enough one can unambiguously decide the meaning of 
     the central word. The formal truth of this statement becomes clear when 
     one mentions that the middle word of a whole article or a whole book is 
     unambiguous if one has read the whole article or book, providing of course 
     that the article or book is sufficiently well written to communicate at 
     all. 
           The practical question is, what minimum value of N will, at least 
     in a tolerable fraction of cases, lead to the correct choice of meaning 
     for the central word? 
           This is a question concerning the statistical semantic character 
     of language which could certainly be answered, at least in some interesting 
     and perhaps in a useful way.  Clearly N varies with the type of writing in 
     question. It may be zero for an article known to be about a specific 
     mathematical subject. It may be very low for chemistry, physics, engineering, 
     etc. If N were equal to 5, and the article or book in question were on some 
                          - 9 - 
    sociological subject, would there be a probability of .95 that the choice 
    of meaning would be correct 98% of the time? Doubtless not: but a statement 
    of this sort could be made, and values of N could be determined that would 
    meet given demands. 
          Ambiguity, moreover, attaches primarily to nouns, verbs, and 
    adjectives; and actually (at least so I suppose) to relatively few nouns, 
    verbs, and adjectives. Here again is a good subject for study concerning 
    the statistical semantic character of languages. But one can imagine using 
    a value of N that varies from word to word, is zero for "he," "the," etc., 
    and which needs to be large only rather occasionally. Or would it determine 
    unique meaning in a satisfactory fraction of cases, to examine not the 2N 
    adjacent words, but perhaps the 2N adjacent nouns? What choice of adjacent 
    words maximizes the probability of correct choice of meaning, and at the same 
    time leads to a small value of N? 
          Thus one is led to the concept of a translation process in which, 
    in determining meaning for a word, account is taken of the immediate (2N 
    word) context. It would hardly be practical to do this by means of a 
    generalized dictionary which contains all possible phases 2N+1 words long: 
    for the number of such phases is horrifying, even to a modern electronic 
    computer. But it does seen likely that some reasonable way could be found 
    of using the micro-context to settle the difficult cases of ambiguity. 
  6) Language and Logic 
          A more general basis for hoping that a computer could be designed 
    which would cope with a useful part of the problem of translation is to be 
    found in a theorem which was proved in 1943 by McCulloch and Pitts.* This 
    *  McCulloch, Warren S. and Pitts, Walter. Bulletin of Mathematical Biophysics, 
        1943, 5, pp. 115-133. 
                          - 10 - 
    theorem states that a robot (or a computer) constructed with regenerative loops 
    of a certain formal character is capable of deducing any legitimate conclusion 
    from a finite set of premises. 
          Now there are surely alogical elements in language (intuitive sense 
    of style, emotional content, etc.) so that again one must be pessimistic about 
    the problem of literary translation. But insofar as written language is an 
    expression of logical character, this theorem assures one that the problem 
    is at least formally solvable. 
   7) Translation and Cryptography 
          Claude Shannon, of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, has recently 
    published some remarkable work in the mathematical theory of communication.* 
    This work all roots back to the statistical characteristics of the communica- 
    tion process. And it is at so basic a level of generality that it is not 
    surprising that his theory includes the whole field of cryptography. During 
    the war Shannon wrote a most important analysis of the whole cryptographic 
    problem, and this work is, W.W. believes, also to appear soon, it having been 
    declassified. 
          Probably only Shannon himself, at this stage, can be a good judge 
    of the possibilities in this direction; but as was expressed in W.W.'s 
    original letter to Wiener, it is very tempting to say that a book written in 
    Chinese is simply a book written in English which was coded into the "Chinese 
    code." If we have useful methods for solving almost any cryptographic problem, 
    may it not be that with proper interpretation we already have useful methods 
    for translation? 
    *  For a very simplified version, see "The Mathematics of Communication," by 
       Warren Weaver, Scientific American, Vol. 181, No. 1, July 1949, pp. 11-15. 
       Shannon's original papers, as published in the Bell System Technical 
       Journal, and a longer and more detailed interpretation by W.W., are about 
       to appear as a memoir on communication, published by the University of 
       Illinois Press. A book by Shannon on this subject is also to appear soon. 
                            - 11 - 
           This approach brings into the foreground an aspect of the matter 
     that probably is absolutely basic - namely, the statistical character of the 
     problem. "Perfect" translation is almost surely unattainable. Processes, 
     which at stated confidence levels will produce a translation which contains 
     only X per cent "error," are almost surely attainable. 
           And it is one of the chief purposes of this memorandum to emphasize 
     that statistical semantic studies should be undertaken, as a necessary 
     preliminary step. 
           The cryptographic-translation idea leads very naturally to, and 
     is in fact a special case of, the fourth and most general suggestion, namely 
     that translation make deep use of language invariants. 
   8) Language and Invariants 
           Indeed, what seems to W.W. to be the most promising approach of 
     all is one based on the ideas expressed in Section 2 above - that is to say, 
     an approach that goes so deeply into the structure of languages as to come 
     down to the level where they exhibit common traits. 
           Think, by analogy, of individuals living in a series of tall 
     closed towers, all erected over a common foundation. When they try to com- 
     municate with one another they shout back and forth, each from his own closed 
     tower. It is difficult to make the sound penetrate even the nearest towers, 
     and communication proceeds very poorly indeed. But when an individual goes down 
     his tower, he finds himself in a great open basement, common to all the towers. 
     Here he establishes easy and useful communication with the persons who have 
     also descended from their towers. 
           Thus may it be true that the way to translate from Chinese to Arabic, 
     or from Russian to Portuguese, is not to attempt the direct route, shouting 
     from tower to tower. Perhaps the way is to descend, from each language, down 
     to the common base of human communication - the real but as yet undiscovered 
     universal language - and then re-emerge by whatever particular route is convenient. 
                          - 12 - 
          Such a program involves a presumably tremendous amount of work in 
     the logical structure of languages before one would be ready for any mechniza- 
     tion. This must be very closely related to what Ogden and Richards have 
     already done for English - and perhaps for French and Chinese. But it is along 
     such general lines that it seems likely that the problem of translation can 
     be attacked successfully. Such a program has the advantage that, whether or 
     not it lead to a useful mechanization of the translation problem, it could not 
     fail to shed much useful light on the general problem of communication. 
     Warren Weaver 
     Carlsbad, New Mexico 
     July 15, 1949 
