                               Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                               NEURALMACHINETRANSLATION
                               BY JOINTLY LEARNING TO ALIGN AND TRANSLATE
                                DzmitryBahdanau
                                Jacobs University Bremen, Germany
                                KyungHyunCho             YoshuaBengio∗
                                           ´           ´
                                Universite de Montreal
                                                                              ABSTRACT
                                         Neural machine translation is a recently proposed approach to machine transla-
                                         tion.  Unlike the traditional statistical machine translation, the neural machine
                                         translation aims at building a single neural network that can be jointly tuned to
                                         maximize the translation performance. The models proposed recently for neu-
                                         ral machine translation often belong to a family of encoder–decoders and encode
                                         a source sentence into a ﬁxed-length vector from which a decoder generates a
                                         translation. In this paper, we conjecture that the use of a ﬁxed-length vector is a
                                         bottleneck in improving the performance of this basic encoder–decoder architec-
                                         ture, and propose to extend this by allowing a model to automatically (soft-)search
                                         for parts of a source sentence that are relevant to predicting a target word, without
                                         having to form these parts as a hard segment explicitly. With this new approach,
                                         we achieve a translation performance comparable to the existing state-of-the-art
                                         phrase-based system on the task of English-to-French translation. Furthermore,
                                         qualitative analysis reveals that the (soft-)alignments found by the model agree
                                         well with our intuition.
                               1    INTRODUCTION
                               Neuralmachinetranslation is a newly emerging approach to machine translation, recently proposed
                               by Kalchbrenner and Blunsom (2013), Sutskever et al. (2014) and Cho et al. (2014b). Unlike the
                               traditional phrase-based translation system (see, e.g., Koehn et al., 2003) which consists of many
                               small sub-components that are tuned separately, neural machine translation attempts to build and
                               train a single, large neural network that reads a sentence and outputs a correct translation.
                               Most of the proposed neural machine translation models belong to a family of encoder–
                               decoders (Sutskever et al., 2014; Cho et al., 2014a), with an encoder and a decoder for each lan-
         arXiv:1409.0473v7  [cs.CL]  19 May 2016guage, or involve a language-speciﬁc encoder applied to each sentence whose outputs are then com-
                               pared (Hermann and Blunsom, 2014). An encoder neural network reads and encodes a source sen-
                               tence into a ﬁxed-length vector. A decoder then outputs a translation from the encoded vector. The
                               whole encoder–decoder system, which consists of the encoder and the decoder for a language pair,
                               is jointly trained to maximize the probability of a correct translation given a source sentence.
                               Apotential issue with this encoder–decoder approach is that a neural network needs to be able to
                               compress all the necessary information of a source sentence into a ﬁxed-length vector. This may
                               makeit difﬁcult for the neural network to cope with long sentences, especially those that are longer
                               than the sentences in the training corpus. Cho et al. (2014b) showed that indeed the performance of
                               a basic encoder–decoder deteriorates rapidly as the length of an input sentence increases.
                               In order to address this issue, we introduce an extension to the encoder–decoder model which learns
                               to align and translate jointly. Each time the proposed model generates a word in a translation, it
                               (soft-)searches for a set of positions in a source sentence where the most relevant information is
                               concentrated. The model then predicts a target word based on the context vectors associated with
                               these source positions and all the previous generated target words.
                                  ∗CIFARSeniorFellow
                                                                                     1
