                               Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                               NEURALMACHINETRANSLATION
                               BY JOINTLY LEARNING TO ALIGN AND TRANSLATE
                                DzmitryBahdanau
                                Jacobs University Bremen, Germany
                                KyungHyunCho             YoshuaBengio∗
                                           ´           ´
                                Universite de Montreal
                                                                              ABSTRACT
                                         Neural machine translation is a recently proposed approach to machine transla-
                                         tion.  Unlike the traditional statistical machine translation, the neural machine
                                         translation aims at building a single neural network that can be jointly tuned to
                                         maximize the translation performance. The models proposed recently for neu-
                                         ral machine translation often belong to a family of encoder–decoders and encode
                                         a source sentence into a ﬁxed-length vector from which a decoder generates a
                                         translation. In this paper, we conjecture that the use of a ﬁxed-length vector is a
                                         bottleneck in improving the performance of this basic encoder–decoder architec-
                                         ture, and propose to extend this by allowing a model to automatically (soft-)search
                                         for parts of a source sentence that are relevant to predicting a target word, without
                                         having to form these parts as a hard segment explicitly. With this new approach,
                                         we achieve a translation performance comparable to the existing state-of-the-art
                                         phrase-based system on the task of English-to-French translation. Furthermore,
                                         qualitative analysis reveals that the (soft-)alignments found by the model agree
                                         well with our intuition.
                               1    INTRODUCTION
                               Neuralmachinetranslation is a newly emerging approach to machine translation, recently proposed
                               by Kalchbrenner and Blunsom (2013), Sutskever et al. (2014) and Cho et al. (2014b). Unlike the
                               traditional phrase-based translation system (see, e.g., Koehn et al., 2003) which consists of many
                               small sub-components that are tuned separately, neural machine translation attempts to build and
                               train a single, large neural network that reads a sentence and outputs a correct translation.
                               Most of the proposed neural machine translation models belong to a family of encoder–
                               decoders (Sutskever et al., 2014; Cho et al., 2014a), with an encoder and a decoder for each lan-
         arXiv:1409.0473v7  [cs.CL]  19 May 2016guage, or involve a language-speciﬁc encoder applied to each sentence whose outputs are then com-
                               pared (Hermann and Blunsom, 2014). An encoder neural network reads and encodes a source sen-
                               tence into a ﬁxed-length vector. A decoder then outputs a translation from the encoded vector. The
                               whole encoder–decoder system, which consists of the encoder and the decoder for a language pair,
                               is jointly trained to maximize the probability of a correct translation given a source sentence.
                               Apotential issue with this encoder–decoder approach is that a neural network needs to be able to
                               compress all the necessary information of a source sentence into a ﬁxed-length vector. This may
                               makeit difﬁcult for the neural network to cope with long sentences, especially those that are longer
                               than the sentences in the training corpus. Cho et al. (2014b) showed that indeed the performance of
                               a basic encoder–decoder deteriorates rapidly as the length of an input sentence increases.
                               In order to address this issue, we introduce an extension to the encoder–decoder model which learns
                               to align and translate jointly. Each time the proposed model generates a word in a translation, it
                               (soft-)searches for a set of positions in a source sentence where the most relevant information is
                               concentrated. The model then predicts a target word based on the context vectors associated with
                               these source positions and all the previous generated target words.
                                  ∗CIFARSeniorFellow
                                                                                     1
                        Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                        The most important distinguishing feature of this approach from the basic encoder–decoder is that
                        it does not attempt to encode a whole input sentence into a single ﬁxed-length vector. Instead, it en-
                        codes the input sentence into a sequence of vectors and chooses a subset of these vectors adaptively
                        while decoding the translation. This frees a neural translation model from having to squash all the
                        information of a source sentence, regardless of its length, into a ﬁxed-length vector. We show this
                        allows a model to cope better with long sentences.
                        In this paper, we show that the proposed approach of jointly learning to align and translate achieves
                        signiﬁcantly improved translation performance over the basic encoder–decoder approach. The im-
                        provement is more apparent with longer sentences, but can be observed with sentences of any
                        length. On the task of English-to-French translation, the proposed approach achieves, with a single
                        model, a translation performance comparable, or close, to the conventional phrase-based system.
                        Furthermore, qualitative analysis reveals that the proposed model ﬁnds a linguistically plausible
                        (soft-)alignment between a source sentence and the corresponding target sentence.
                        2   BACKGROUND: NEURAL MACHINE TRANSLATION
                        From a probabilistic perspective, translation is equivalent to ﬁnding a target sentence y that max-
                        imizes the conditional probability of y given a source sentence x, i.e., argmax p(y | x). In
                                                                                                  y
                        neural machine translation, we ﬁt a parameterized model to maximize the conditional probability
                        of sentence pairs using a parallel training corpus. Once the conditional distribution is learned by a
                        translation model, given a source sentence a corresponding translation can be generated by searching
                        for the sentence that maximizes the conditional probability.
                        Recently, a number of papers have proposed the use of neural networks to directly learn this condi-
                        tional distribution (see, e.g., Kalchbrenner and Blunsom, 2013; Cho et al., 2014a; Sutskever et al.,
                                                           ˜
                        2014; Cho et al., 2014b; Forcada and Neco, 1997). This neural machine translation approach typ-
                        ically consists of two components, the ﬁrst of which encodes a source sentence x and the second
                        decodes to a target sentence y. For instance, two recurrent neural networks (RNN) were used by
                        (Cho et al., 2014a) and (Sutskever et al., 2014) to encode a variable-length source sentence into a
                        ﬁxed-length vector and to decode the vector into a variable-length target sentence.
                        Despitebeingaquitenewapproach,neuralmachinetranslationhasalreadyshownpromisingresults.
                        Sutskever et al. (2014) reported that the neural machine translation based on RNNs with long short-
                        term memory (LSTM) units achieves close to the state-of-the-art performance of the conventional
                                                                                                 1
                        phrase-based machine translation system on an English-to-French translation task. Adding neural
                        components to existing translation systems, for instance, to score the phrase pairs in the phrase
                        table (Cho et al., 2014a) or to re-rank candidate translations (Sutskever et al., 2014), has allowed to
                        surpass the previous state-of-the-art performance level.
                        2.1   RNNENCODER–DECODER
                        Here, we describe brieﬂy the underlying framework, called RNN Encoder–Decoder, proposed by
                        Choet al. (2014a) and Sutskever et al. (2014) upon which we build a novel architecture that learns
                        to align and translate simultaneously.
                        In the Encoder–Decoder framework, an encoder reads the input sentence, a sequence of vectors
                        x=(x ,··· ,x ),intoavectorc.2 The most common approach is to use an RNN such that
                               1      Tx
                                                            h =f(x ,h      )                                 (1)
                        and                                  t       t  t−1
                                                         c = q({h ,··· ,h   }),
                                                                  1      Tx
                        where ht ∈ Rn is a hidden state at time t, and c is a vector generated from the sequence of the
                        hidden states. f and q are some nonlinear functions. Sutskever et al. (2014) used an LSTM as f and
                        q({h ,··· ,h }) = h , for instance.
                             1      T       T
                           1 We mean by the state-of-the-art performance, the performance of the conventional phrase-based system
                        without using any neural network-based component.
                           2 Althoughmostofthepreviousworks(see,e.g.,Choetal.,2014a;Sutskeveretal.,2014;Kalchbrennerand
                        Blunsom, 2013) used to encode a variable-length input sentence into a ﬁxed-length vector, it is not necessary,
                        and even it may be beneﬁcial to have a variable-length vector, as we will show later.
                                                                   2
                              Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                              The decoder is often trained to predict the next word y 0 given the context vector c and all the
                                                                                             t
                              previously predicted words {y ,··· ,y 0        }. In other words, the decoder deﬁnes a probability over
                                                               1        t −1
                              the translation y by decomposing the joint probability into the ordered conditionals:
                                                                          T
                                                                p(y) = Yp(y | {y ,··· ,y           },c),                                (2)
                                                                                t     1        t−1
                                                                         t=1
                              where y =  y ,··· ,y       . With an RNN, each conditional probability is modeled as
                                             1         Ty
                                                             p(y | {y ,··· ,y       },c) = g(y      , s , c),                           (3)
                                                                 t     1        t−1             t−1    t
                              wheregisanonlinear,potentiallymulti-layered, function that outputs the probability of yt, and st is
                              the hidden state of the RNN. It should be noted that other architectures such as a hybrid of an RNN
                              and a de-convolutional neural network can be used (Kalchbrenner and Blunsom, 2013).
                              3    LEARNING TO ALIGN AND TRANSLATE
                              In this section, we propose a novel architecture for neural machine translation. The new architecture
                              consists of a bidirectional RNN as an encoder (Sec. 3.2) and a decoder that emulates searching
                              through a source sentence during decoding a translation (Sec. 3.1).
                              3.1    DECODER: GENERAL DESCRIPTION
                              In a new model architecture, we deﬁne each conditional probability
                              in Eq. (2) as:
                                                                                                                    y        y
                                                                                                                     t-1       t
                                             p(y |y ,...,y       , x) = g(y     , s , c ),          (4)
                                                 i  1        i−1            i−1   i  i                              st-1      st
                              where si is an RNN hidden state for time i, computed by
                                                      s =f(s        , y   , c ).
                                                        i       i−1   i−1    i                                         +
                                                                                                                α
                                                                                                                               α
                                                                                                                 t,1
                              It should be noted that unlike the existing encoder–decoder ap-                                   t,T
                                                                                                                  α
                                                                                                                           α
                                                                                                                   t,2
                              proach(seeEq.(2)),heretheprobabilityisconditionedonadistinct                                  t,3
                              context vector c for each target word y .
                                                i                        i
                                                                                                             h      h     h           h
                              The context vector c depends on a sequence of annotations                       1      2      3           T
                                                       i
                              (h ,··· ,h     ) to which an encoder maps the input sentence. Each
                                 1        Tx
                                                                                                             h      h     h           h
                              annotation h contains information about the whole input sequence                1      2      3           T
                                            i
                              with a strong focus on the parts surrounding the i-th word of the
                                                                                                            x      x      x           x
                              input sequence. We explain in detail how the annotations are com-               1      2      3           T
                              puted in the next section.                                                  Figure1: Thegraphicalillus-
                              Thecontextvectorci is, then, computed as a weighted sum of these            tration of the proposed model
                              annotations h :
                                             i                                                            trying to generate the t-th tar-
                                                                 Tx                                       get word yt given a source
                                                                X                                         sentence (x ,x ,...,x ).
                                                          ci =      αijhj.                          (5)                1   2        T
                                                                j=1
                              Theweightαij of each annotation hj is computed by
                                                                                   exp(e )
                                                                       α =P               ij     ,                                      (6)
                                                                         ij       Tx exp(e )
                                                                                  k=1        ik
                              where
                                                                           e   =a(s      , h )
                                                                            ij       i−1    j
                              is an alignment model which scores how well the inputs around position j and the output at position
                              i match. The score is based on the RNN hidden state s            (just before emitting y , Eq. (4)) and the
                              j-th annotation h of the input sentence.                    i−1                          i
                                                 j
                              Weparametrizethealignmentmodelaasafeedforwardneuralnetworkwhichisjointlytrainedwith
                              all the other components of the proposed system. Note that unlike in traditional machine translation,
                                                                                    3
                             Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                             the alignment is not considered to be a latent variable. Instead, the alignment model directly com-
                             putes a soft alignment, which allows the gradient of the cost function to be backpropagated through.
                             Thisgradientcanbeusedtotrainthealignmentmodelaswellasthewholetranslationmodeljointly.
                             Wecan understand the approach of taking a weighted sum of all the annotations as computing an
                             expected annotation, where the expectation is over possible alignments. Let αij be a probability that
                             the target word y is aligned to, or translated from, a source word x . Then, the i-th context vector
                                               i                                                    j
                             ci is the expected annotation over all the annotations with probabilities αij.
                             The probability α , or its associated energy e , reﬂects the importance of the annotation h with
                                                ij                            ij                                               j
                             respect to the previous hidden state s     in deciding the next state s and generating y . Intuitively,
                                                                    i−1                             i                  i
                             this implements a mechanism of attention in the decoder. The decoder decides parts of the source
                             sentence to pay attention to. By letting the decoder have an attention mechanism, we relieve the
                             encoder from the burden of having to encode all information in the source sentence into a ﬁxed-
                             length vector. With this new approach the information can be spread throughout the sequence of
                             annotations, which can be selectively retrieved by the decoder accordingly.
                             3.2   ENCODER: BIDIRECTIONAL RNN FOR ANNOTATING SEQUENCES
                             The usual RNN, described in Eq. (1), reads an input sequence x in order starting from the ﬁrst
                             symbol x to the last one x      .  However, in the proposed scheme, we would like the annotation
                                       1                   Tx
                             of each word to summarize not only the preceding words, but also the following words. Hence,
                             we propose to use a bidirectional RNN (BiRNN, Schuster and Paliwal, 1997), which has been
                             successfully used recently in speech recognition (see, e.g., Graves et al., 2013).
                                                                                                        →−
                             ABiRNNconsistsofforwardandbackwardRNN’s. TheforwardRNN f readstheinputsequence
                                                                                                                    →−        →−
                             as it is ordered (from x to x   ) and calculates a sequence of forward hidden states ( h ,··· , h     ).
                                                     1    Tx                                                           1         Tx
                                                    ←−
                             The backward RNN f reads the sequence in the reverse order (from xT to x1), resulting in a
                                                                    ←−        ←−                            x
                             sequence of backward hidden states ( h 1,··· , h T ).
                                                                                  x
                                                                                                                         →−
                             Weobtain an annotation for each word xj by concatenating the forward hidden state hj and the
                                                            h           i
                                            ←−                →−   ←−    >
                             backward one h , i.e., h =       h>; h>       . In this way, the annotation h contains the summaries
                                               j        j       j     j                                    j
                             of both the preceding words and the following words. Due to the tendency of RNNs to better
                             represent recent inputs, the annotation hj will be focused on the words around xj. This sequence
                             of annotations is used by the decoder and the alignment model later to compute the context vector
                             (Eqs. (5)–(6)).
                             See Fig. 1 for the graphical illustration of the proposed model.
                             4    EXPERIMENT SETTINGS
                             Weevaluate the proposed approach on the task of English-to-French translation. We use the bilin-
                                                                                    3
                             gual, parallel corpora provided by ACL WMT ’14.          As a comparison, we also report the perfor-
                             mance of an RNN Encoder–Decoder which was proposed recently by Cho et al. (2014a). We use
                             the same training procedures and the same dataset for both models.4
                             4.1   DATASET
                             WMT’14 contains the following English-French parallel corpora: Europarl (61M words), news
                             commentary (5.5M), UN (421M) and two crawled corpora of 90M and 272.5M words respectively,
                             totaling 850Mwords. FollowingtheproceduredescribedinChoetal.(2014a),wereducethesizeof
                                                                                                                                    5
                             the combinedcorpustohave348MwordsusingthedataselectionmethodbyAxelrodetal.(2011).
                             Wedonotuseanymonolingual data other than the mentioned parallel corpora, although it may be
                             possible to use a much larger monolingual corpus to pretrain an encoder. We concatenate news-test-
                                3 http://www.statmt.org/wmt14/translation-task.html
                                4 Implementations are available at https://github.com/lisa-groundhog/GroundHog.
                                5 Availableonlineathttp://www-lium.univ-lemans.fr/ schwenk/cslm_joint_paper/.
                                                                                                ˜
                                                                                4
                         Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                             30
                             25
                             20                                                         Figure 2: The BLEU scores
                            score                                                       of the generated translations
                             15                                                         on the test set with respect
                                                                                        to the lengths of the sen-
                            BLEU10   RNNsearch-50                                       tences.  The results are on
                                     RNNsearch-30                                       the full test set which in-
                              5      RNNenc-50                                          cludes sentences having un-
                                     RNNenc-30                                          knownwordstothemodels.
                              0
                               0       10       20      30       40      50       60
                                                  Sentence length
                         2012andnews-test-2013tomakeadevelopment(validation)set,andevaluatethemodelsonthetest
                         set (news-test-2014) from WMT ’14, which consists of 3003 sentences not present in the training
                         data.
                         After a usual tokenization6, we use a shortlist of 30,000 most frequent words in each language to
                         train our models. Any word not included in the shortlist is mapped to a special token ([UNK]). We
                         donotapply any other special preprocessing, such as lowercasing or stemming, to the data.
                         4.2  MODELS
                         Wetrain two types of models. The ﬁrst one is an RNN Encoder–Decoder (RNNencdec, Cho et al.,
                         2014a), and the other is the proposed model, to which we refer as RNNsearch. We train each model
                         twice: ﬁrst with the sentences of length up to 30 words (RNNencdec-30, RNNsearch-30) and then
                         with the sentences of length up to 50 word (RNNencdec-50, RNNsearch-50).
                                                                                              7
                         The encoder and decoder of the RNNencdec have 1000 hidden units each.  The encoder of the
                         RNNsearch consists of forward and backward recurrent neural networks (RNN) each having 1000
                         hidden units. Its decoder has 1000 hidden units. In both cases, we use a multilayer network with a
                         single maxout (Goodfellow et al., 2013) hidden layer to compute the conditional probability of each
                         target word (Pascanu et al., 2014).
                         We use a minibatch stochastic gradient descent (SGD) algorithm together with Adadelta (Zeiler,
                         2012) to train each model. Each SGD update direction is computed using a minibatch of 80 sen-
                         tences. We trained each model for approximately 5 days.
                         Onceamodelistrained,weuseabeamsearchtoﬁndatranslationthatapproximatelymaximizesthe
                         conditional probability (see, e.g., Graves, 2012; Boulanger-Lewandowski et al., 2013). Sutskever
                         et al. (2014) used this approach to generate translations from their neural machine translation model.
                         For more details on the architectures of the models and training procedure used in the experiments,
                         see Appendices A and B.
                         5   RESULTS
                         5.1  QUANTITATIVE RESULTS
                         In Table 1, we list the translation performances measured in BLEU score. It is clear from the table
                         that in all the cases, the proposed RNNsearch outperforms the conventional RNNencdec. More
                         importantly, the performance of the RNNsearch is as high as that of the conventional phrase-based
                         translation system (Moses), when only the sentences consisting of known words are considered.
                         Thisisasigniﬁcantachievement,consideringthatMosesusesaseparatemonolingualcorpus(418M
                         words) in addition to the parallel corpora we used to train the RNNsearch and RNNencdec.
                            6 We used the tokenization script from the open-source machine translation package, Moses.
                            7 In this paper, by a ’hidden unit’, we always mean the gated hidden unit (see Appendix A.1.1).
                                                                     5
                           Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                                       TheagreementontheEuropeanEconomicAreawassignedinAugust1992.<end>
                                    L'                                                     Itshouldbenotedthatthemarineenvironmentistheleastknownofenvironments.<end>
                                accord                                                  Il
                                   sur                                             convient
                                                                                       de
                                    la                                               noter
                                  zone                                                que
                            économique                                                  l'
                            européenne                                        environnement
                                    a                                                marin
                                                                                       est
                                   été                                                  le
                                 signé                                               moins
                                   en                                                connu
                                  août                                                 de
                                  1992                                                  l'
                                                                              environnement
                                     .                                                   .
                                <end>                                               <end>
                                                 (a)                                               (b)
                                       DestructionoftheequipmentmeansthatSyriacannolongerproducenewchemicalweapons.<end>"Thiswillchangemyfuturewithmyfamily,"themansaid.<end>
                                    La
                             destruction                                            "
                                   de                                            Cela
                                    l'                                             va
                            équipement                                        changer
                                signifie                                         mon
                                  que                                           avenir
                                    la                                           avec
                                 Syrie                                            ma
                                   ne                                          famille
                                  peut                                              "
                                  plus                                               ,
                               produire                                             a
                                   de
                              nouvelles                                            dit
                                armes                                               l'
                             chimiques                                         homme
                                     .                                               .
                                <end>                                          <end>
                                                 (c)                                               (d)
                           Figure 3:  Four sample alignments found by RNNsearch-50. The x-axis and y-axis of each plot
                           correspond to the words in the source sentence (English) and the generated translation (French),
                           respectively. Each pixel shows the weight α  of the annotation of the j-th source word for the i-th
                                                                      ij
                           target word (see Eq. (6)), in grayscale (0: black, 1: white). (a) an arbitrary sentence. (b–d) three
                           randomlyselected samples among the sentences without any unknown words and of length between
                           10and20wordsfromthetestset.
                           One of the motivations behind the proposed approach was the use of a ﬁxed-length context vector
                           in the basic encoder–decoder approach. We conjectured that this limitation may make the basic
                           encoder–decoder approach to underperform with long sentences. In Fig. 2, we see that the perfor-
                           manceofRNNencdecdramaticallydropsasthelengthofthesentencesincreases. Ontheotherhand,
                           both RNNsearch-30 and RNNsearch-50 are more robust to the length of the sentences. RNNsearch-
                           50, especially, shows no performance deterioration even with sentences of length 50 or more. This
                           superiority of the proposed model over the basic encoder–decoder is further conﬁrmed by the fact
                           that the RNNsearch-30 even outperforms RNNencdec-50 (see Table 1).
                                                                          6
                     Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                                                         Table 1: BLEU scores of the trained models com-
                                                    ◦    puted on the test set. The second and third columns
                           Model       All   NoUNK
                       RNNencdec-30   13.93    24.19     showrespectivelythescoresonallthesentencesand,
                        RNNsearch-30  21.50    31.44     onthesentenceswithoutanyunknownwordinthem-
                       RNNencdec-50   17.82    26.71     selves and in the reference translations. Note that
                        RNNsearch-50  26.75    34.16     RNNsearch-50? was trained much longer until the
                                   ?                     performanceonthedevelopmentsetstoppedimprov-
                       RNNsearch-50   28.45    36.15     ing. (◦) Wedisallowedthemodelstogenerate[UNK]
                           Moses      33.30    35.63     tokens when only the sentences having no unknown
                                                         words were evaluated (last column).
                      5.2 QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS
                      5.2.1 ALIGNMENT
                     Theproposedapproach provides an intuitive way to inspect the (soft-)alignment between the words
                     in a generated translation and those in a source sentence. This is done by visualizing the annotation
                     weights αij from Eq. (6), as in Fig. 3. Each row of a matrix in each plot indicates the weights
                     associated with the annotations. From this we see which positions in the source sentence were
                     considered more important when generating the target word.
                     Wecanseefromthe alignments in Fig. 3 that the alignment of words between English and French
                     is largely monotonic. We see strong weights along the diagonal of each matrix. However, we also
                     observe a number of non-trivial, non-monotonic alignments. Adjectives and nouns are typically
                     ordered differently between French and English, and we see an example in Fig. 3 (a). From this
                     ﬁgure, we see that the model correctly translates a phrase [European Economic Area] into [zone
                      ´             ´
                     economique europeen]. The RNNsearch was able to correctly align [zone] with [Area], jumping
                     over the two words ([European] and [Economic]), and then looked one word back at a time to
                                                ´             ´
                     complete the whole phrase [zone economique europeenne].
                     The strength of the soft-alignment, opposed to a hard-alignment, is evident, for instance, from
                     Fig. 3 (d). Consider the source phrase [the man] which was translated into [l’ homme]. Any hard
                     alignment will map [the] to [l’] and [man] to [homme]. This is not helpful for translation, as one
                     must consider the word following [the] to determine whether it should be translated into [le], [la],
                     [les] or [l’]. Our soft-alignment solves this issue naturally by letting the model look at both [the] and
                     [man], and in this example, we see that the model was able to correctly translate [the] into [l’]. We
                     observe similar behaviors in all the presented cases in Fig. 3. An additional beneﬁt of the soft align-
                     mentisthat it naturally deals with source and target phrases of different lengths, without requiring a
                     counter-intuitive way of mapping some words to or from nowhere ([NULL]) (see, e.g., Chapters 4
                     and 5 of Koehn, 2010).
                      5.2.2 LONGSENTENCES
                     Asclearlyvisible from Fig. 2 the proposed model (RNNsearch) is much better than the conventional
                     model (RNNencdec) at translating long sentences. This is likely due to the fact that the RNNsearch
                     does not require encoding a long sentence into a ﬁxed-length vector perfectly, but only accurately
                     encoding the parts of the input sentence that surround a particular word.
                     Asanexample,consider this source sentence from the test set:
                            An admitting privilege is the right of a doctor to admit a patient to a hospital or
                            a medical centre to carry out a diagnosis or a procedure, based on his status as a
                            health care worker at a hospital.
                     TheRNNencdec-50translated this sentence into:
                            Un privilege d’admission est le droit d’un medecin de reconnaıtre un patient a
                                    `                           ´              ˆ           `
                            l’hopital ou un centre medical d’un diagnostic ou de prendre un diagnostic en
                               ˆ                ´
                            fonction de son etat de sante.
                                         ´        ´
                                                            7
                               Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                               TheRNNencdec-50correctlytranslatedthesourcesentenceuntil[amedicalcenter]. However,from
                               there on (underlined), it deviated from the original meaning of the source sentence. For instance, it
                               replaced [based on his status as a health care worker at a hospital] in the source sentence with [en
                                                  ´            ´
                               fonction de son etat de sante] (“based on his state of health”).
                               On the other hand, the RNNsearch-50 generated the following correct translation, preserving the
                               whole meaning of the input sentence without omitting any details:
                                          Un privilege d’admission est le droit d’un medecin d’admettre un patient a un
                                                    `                                         ´                                  `
                                          hopital ou un centre medical pour effectuer un diagnostic ou une procedure, selon
                                           ˆ                       ´                                                     ´
                                          son statut de travailleur des soins de sante a l’hopital.
                                                                                         ´ `    ˆ
                               Let us consider another sentence from the test set:
                                          This kind of experience is part of Disney’s efforts to ”extend the lifetime of its
                                          series and build new relationships with audiences via digital platforms that are
                                          becoming ever more important,” he added.
                               Thetranslation by the RNNencdec-50 is
                                          Cetyped’experiencefaitpartiedesinitiativesduDisneypour”prolongerladuree
                                                         ´                                                                          ´
                                          deviedesesnouvellesetdedevelopperdesliensavecleslecteursnumeriquesqui
                                                                           ´                                              ´
                                          deviennent plus complexes.
                               As with the previous example, the RNNencdec began deviating from the actual meaning of the
                               source sentence after generating approximately 30 words (see the underlined phrase). After that
                               point, the quality of the translation deteriorates, with basic mistakes such as the lack of a closing
                               quotation mark.
                               Again, the RNNsearch-50 was able to translate this long sentence correctly:
                                          Ce genre d’experience fait partie des efforts de Disney pour ”prolonger la duree
                                                           ´                                                                        ´
                                          de vie de ses series et creer de nouvelles relations avec des publics via des
                                                            ´            ´
                                          plateformes numeriques de plus en plus importantes”, a-t-il ajoute.
                                                             ´                                                       ´
                               In conjunction with the quantitative results presented already, these qualitative observations con-
                               ﬁrm our hypotheses that the RNNsearch architecture enables far more reliable translation of long
                               sentences than the standard RNNencdec model.
                               In Appendix C, we provide a few more sample translations of long source sentences generated by
                               the RNNencdec-50, RNNsearch-50 and Google Translate along with the reference translations.
                               6     RELATED WORK
                               6.1    LEARNING TO ALIGN
                               Asimilar approach of aligning an output symbol with an input symbol was proposed recently by
                               Graves (2013) in the context of handwriting synthesis. Handwriting synthesis is a task where the
                               model is asked to generate handwriting of a given sequence of characters. In his work, he used a
                               mixture of Gaussian kernels to compute the weights of the annotations, where the location, width
                               and mixture coefﬁcient of each kernel was predicted from an alignment model. More speciﬁcally,
                               his alignment was restricted to predict the location such that the location increases monotonically.
                               The main difference from our approach is that, in (Graves, 2013), the modes of the weights of the
                               annotations only move in one direction. In the context of machine translation, this is a severe limi-
                               tation, as (long-distance) reordering is often needed to generate a grammatically correct translation
                               (for instance, English-to-German).
                               Our approach, on the other hand, requires computing the annotation weight of every word in the
                               source sentence for each word in the translation. This drawback is not severe with the task of
                               translation in which most of input and output sentences are only 15–40 words. However, this may
                               limit the applicability of the proposed scheme to other tasks.
                                                                                       8
                         Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                         6.2  NEURALNETWORKSFORMACHINETRANSLATION
                         SinceBengioetal.(2003)introducedaneuralprobabilisticlanguagemodelwhichusesaneuralnet-
                         work to model the conditional probability of a word given a ﬁxed number of the preceding words,
                         neural networks have widely been used in machine translation. However, the role of neural net-
                         workshasbeenlargelylimitedtosimplyprovidingasinglefeaturetoanexistingstatistical machine
                         translation system or to re-rank a list of candidate translations provided by an existing system.
                         For instance, Schwenk (2012) proposed using a feedforward neural network to compute the score of
                         a pair of source and target phrases and to use the score as an additional feature in the phrase-based
                         statistical machine translation system. More recently, Kalchbrenner and Blunsom (2013) and Devlin
                         et al. (2014) reported the successful use of the neural networks as a sub-component of the existing
                         translation system. Traditionally, a neural network trained as a target-side language model has been
                         used to rescore or rerank a list of candidate translations (see, e.g., Schwenk et al., 2006).
                         Although the above approaches were shown to improve the translation performance over the state-
                         of-the-art machine translation systems, we are more interested in a more ambitious objective of
                         designing a completely new translation system based on neural networks. The neural machine trans-
                         lation approach we consider in this paper is therefore a radical departure from these earlier works.
                         Rather than using a neural network as a part of the existing system, our model works on its own and
                         generates a translation from a source sentence directly.
                         7   CONCLUSION
                         The conventional approach to neural machine translation, called an encoder–decoder approach, en-
                         codes a whole input sentence into a ﬁxed-length vector from which a translation will be decoded.
                         Weconjectured that the use of a ﬁxed-length context vector is problematic for translating long sen-
                         tences, based on a recent empirical study reported by Cho et al. (2014b) and Pouget-Abadie et al.
                         (2014).
                         In this paper, we proposed a novel architecture that addresses this issue. We extended the basic
                         encoder–decoder by letting a model (soft-)search for a set of input words, or their annotations com-
                         puted by an encoder, when generating each target word. This frees the model from having to encode
                         awholesourcesentenceintoaﬁxed-lengthvector,andalsoletsthemodelfocusonlyoninformation
                         relevant to the generation of the next target word. This has a major positive impact on the ability
                         of the neural machine translation system to yield good results on longer sentences. Unlike with
                         the traditional machine translation systems, all of the pieces of the translation system, including
                         the alignment mechanism, are jointly trained towards a better log-probability of producing correct
                         translations.
                         Wetestedtheproposedmodel,called RNNsearch, on the task of English-to-French translation. The
                         experiment revealed that the proposed RNNsearch outperforms the conventional encoder–decoder
                         model (RNNencdec) signiﬁcantly, regardless of the sentence length and that it is much more ro-
                         bust to the length of a source sentence. From the qualitative analysis where we investigated the
                         (soft-)alignment generated by the RNNsearch, we were able to conclude that the model can cor-
                         rectly align each target word with the relevant words, or their annotations, in the source sentence as
                         it generated a correct translation.
                         Perhapsmoreimportantly,theproposedapproachachievedatranslationperformancecomparableto
                         the existing phrase-based statistical machine translation. It is a striking result, considering that the
                         proposed architecture, or the whole family of neural machine translation, has only been proposed
                         as recently as this year. We believe the architecture proposed here is a promising step toward better
                         machine translation and a better understanding of natural languages in general.
                         Oneofchallengesleftforthefutureistobetterhandleunknown,orrarewords. Thiswillberequired
                         for the model to be more widely used and to match the performance of current state-of-the-art
                         machine translation systems in all contexts.
                                                                    9
           Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
           ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
           The authors would like to thank the developers of Theano (Bergstra et al., 2010; Bastien et al.,
           2012). We acknowledge the support of the following agencies for research funding and computing
                       ´
           support: NSERC, Calcul Quebec, Compute Canada, the Canada Research Chairs and CIFAR. Bah-
           danauthanksthesupportfromPlanetIntelligent Systems GmbH. We also thank Felix Hill, Bart van
              ´
           Merrienboer, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Coline Devin and Tae-Ho Kim.
           REFERENCES
           Axelrod, A., He, X., and Gao, J. (2011). Domain adaptation via pseudo in-domain data selection.
            In Proceedings of the ACL Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
            (EMNLP),pages355–362.Association for Computational Linguistics.
           Bastien, F., Lamblin, P., Pascanu, R., Bergstra, J., Goodfellow, I. J., Bergeron, A., Bouchard, N.,
            and Bengio, Y. (2012). Theano: new features and speed improvements. Deep Learning and
            Unsupervised Feature Learning NIPS 2012 Workshop.
           Bengio, Y., Simard, P., and Frasconi, P. (1994). Learning long-term dependencies with gradient
            descent is difﬁcult. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 5(2), 157–166.
           Bengio,Y.,Ducharme,R.,Vincent,P.,andJanvin,C.(2003). Aneuralprobabilisticlanguagemodel.
            J. Mach. Learn. Res., 3, 1137–1155.
           Bergstra, J., Breuleux, O., Bastien, F., Lamblin, P., Pascanu, R., Desjardins, G., Turian, J., Warde-
            Farley, D., and Bengio, Y. (2010). Theano: a CPU and GPU math expression compiler. In
            Proceedings of the Python for Scientiﬁc Computing Conference (SciPy). Oral Presentation.
           Boulanger-Lewandowski, N., Bengio, Y., and Vincent, P. (2013). Audio chord recognition with
            recurrent neural networks. In ISMIR.
           Cho, K., van Merrienboer, B., Gulcehre, C., Bougares, F., Schwenk, H., and Bengio, Y. (2014a).
            Learning phrase representations using RNN encoder-decoder for statistical machine translation.
            In Proceedings of the Empiricial Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 2014). to
            appear.
                   ¨
           Cho, K., van Merrienboer, B., Bahdanau, D., and Bengio, Y. (2014b). On the properties of neural
            machine translation: Encoder–Decoder approaches. In Eighth Workshop on Syntax, Semantics
            andStructure in Statistical Translation. to appear.
           Devlin, J., Zbib, R., Huang, Z., Lamar, T., Schwartz, R., and Makhoul, J. (2014). Fast and robust
            neural network joint models for statistical machine translation. In Association for Computational
            Linguistics.
                    ˜
           Forcada, M. L. and Neco, R. P. (1997). Recursive hetero-associative memories for translation. In
                     ´
            J. Mira, R. Moreno-Dıaz, and J. Cabestany, editors, Biological and Artiﬁcial Computation: From
            NeurosciencetoTechnology,volume1240ofLectureNotesinComputerScience,pages453–462.
            Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
           Goodfellow, I., Warde-Farley, D., Mirza, M., Courville, A., and Bengio, Y. (2013). Maxout net-
            works. In Proceedings of The 30th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1319–
            1327.
           Graves, A. (2012). Sequence transduction with recurrent neural networks. In Proceedings of the
            29th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML 2012).
           Graves, A. (2013). Generating sequences with recurrent neural networks. arXiv:1308.0850
            [cs.NE].
           Graves, A., Jaitly, N., and Mohamed, A.-R. (2013). Hybrid speech recognition with deep bidirec-
            tional LSTM. In Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding (ASRU), 2013 IEEE Work-
            shop on, pages 273–278.
                               10
                                 Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                                 Hermann, K. and Blunsom, P. (2014). Multilingual distributed representations without word align-
                                    ment. In ProceedingsoftheSecondInternationalConferenceonLearningRepresentations(ICLR
                                    2014).
                                 Hochreiter, S. (1991). UntersuchungenzudynamischenneuronalenNetzen.Diplomathesis,Institut
                                     ¨                                                                       ¨     ¨
                                    fur Informatik, Lehrstuhl Prof. Brauer, Technische Universitat Munchen.
                                 Hochreiter, S. and Schmidhuber, J. (1997). Long short-term memory. Neural Computation, 9(8),
                                    1735–1780.
                                 Kalchbrenner, N. and Blunsom, P. (2013). Recurrent continuous translation models. In Proceedings
                                    of the ACL Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages
                                    1700–1709. Association for Computational Linguistics.
                                 Koehn, P. (2010). Statistical Machine Translation. Cambridge University Press, New York, NY,
                                    USA.
                                 Koehn, P., Och, F. J., and Marcu, D. (2003). Statistical phrase-based translation. In Proceedings
                                    of the 2003 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
                                    Linguistics on Human Language Technology - Volume 1, NAACL ’03, pages 48–54, Stroudsburg,
                                    PA, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.
                                 Pascanu, R., Mikolov, T., and Bengio, Y. (2013a). On the difﬁculty of training recurrent neural
                                    networks. In ICML’2013.
                                 Pascanu, R., Mikolov, T., and Bengio, Y. (2013b). On the difﬁculty of training recurrent neural
                                    networks. In Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML
                                    2013).
                                 Pascanu, R., Gulcehre, C., Cho, K., and Bengio, Y. (2014). How to construct deep recurrent neural
                                    networks. In Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Learning Representations
                                    (ICLR 2014).
                                                                                      ¨
                                 Pouget-Abadie,J., Bahdanau,D.,vanMerrienboer,B.,Cho,K.,andBengio,Y.(2014). Overcoming
                                    the curse of sentence length for neural machine translation using automatic segmentation. In
                                    Eighth Workshop on Syntax, Semantics and Structure in Statistical Translation. to appear.
                                 Schuster, M. and Paliwal, K. K. (1997). Bidirectional recurrent neural networks. Signal Processing,
                                    IEEETransactions on, 45(11), 2673–2681.
                                 Schwenk, H. (2012). Continuous space translation models for phrase-based statistical machine
                                    translation. In M. Kay and C. Boitet, editors, Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on
                                    Computational Linguistics (COLIN), pages 1071–1080. Indian Institute of Technology Bombay.
                                 Schwenk, H., Dchelotte, D., and Gauvain, J.-L. (2006). Continuous space language models for
                                    statistical machine translation. In Proceedings of the COLING/ACL on Main conference poster
                                    sessions, pages 723–730. Association for Computational Linguistics.
                                 Sutskever, I., Vinyals, O., and Le, Q. (2014). Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks.
                                    In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2014).
                                 Zeiler, M. D. (2012).          ADADELTA: An adaptive learning rate method.                      arXiv:1212.5701
                                    [cs.LG].
                                                                                           11
                             Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                             A MODELARCHITECTURE
                             A.1    ARCHITECTURAL CHOICES
                             TheproposedschemeinSection3isageneralframeworkwhereonecanfreelydeﬁne,forinstance,
                             the activation functions f of recurrent neural networks (RNN) and the alignment model a. Here, we
                             describe the choices we made for the experiments in this paper.
                             A.1.1    RECURRENT NEURAL NETWORK
                             For the activation function f of an RNN, we use the gated hidden unit recently proposed by Cho
                             et al. (2014a). The gated hidden unit is an alternative to the conventional simple units such as an
                             element-wise tanh. This gated unit is similar to a long short-term memory (LSTM) unit proposed
                             earlier by Hochreiter and Schmidhuber (1997), sharing with it the ability to better model and learn
                             long-term dependencies. This is made possible by having computation paths in the unfolded RNN
                             for which the product of derivatives is close to 1. These paths allow gradients to ﬂow backward
                             easily without suffering too much from the vanishing effect (Hochreiter, 1991; Bengio et al., 1994;
                             Pascanu et al., 2013a). It is therefore possible to use LSTM units instead of the gated hidden unit
                             described here, as was done in a similar context by Sutskever et al. (2014).
                             Thenewstates oftheRNNemployingngatedhiddenunits8 iscomputedby
                                             i
                                                      s =f(s       , y   , c ) = (1 − z ) ◦ s     +z ◦s˜,
                                                        i       i−1   i−1   i           i    i−1     i    i
                             where ◦ is an element-wise multiplication, and z is the output of the update gates (see below). The
                                                                                i
                             proposed updated state s˜ is computed by
                                                       i
                                                        s˜ = tanh(We(y         ) +U[r ◦s       ] + Cc ),
                                                          i                i−1         i    i−1        i
                             where e(y     ) ∈ Rm is an m-dimensional embedding of a word y             , and r is the output of the
                                        i−1                                                         i−1        i
                             reset gates (see below). When y is represented as a 1-of-K vector, e(y ) is simply a column of an
                                                               i                                        i
                             embedding matrix E ∈ Rm×K. Whenever possible, we omit bias terms to make the equations less
                             cluttered.
                             Theupdategates z allow each hidden unit to maintain its previous activation, and the reset gates r
                                                 i                                                                                  i
                             control how much and what information from the previous state should be reset. We compute them
                             by
                                                            z =σ(W e(y         ) +U s       +C c ),
                                                             i         z    i−1      z i−1       z i
                                                            r =σ(W e(y         ) +U s       +C c ),
                                                             i         r    i−1      r i−1      r i
                             where σ(·) is a logistic sigmoid function.
                             At each step of the decoder, we compute the output probability (Eq. (4)) as a multi-layered func-
                             tion (Pascanu et al., 2014). We use a single hidden layer of maxout units (Goodfellow et al., 2013)
                             and normalize the output probabilities (one for each word) with a softmax function (see Eq. (6)).
                             A.1.2    ALIGNMENT MODEL
                             Thealignment model should be designed considering that the model needs to be evaluated T × T
                                                                                                                              x     y
                             times for each sentence pair of lengths T and T . In order to reduce computation, we use a single-
                                                                        x       y
                             layer multilayer perceptron such that
                                                          a(s     , h ) = v> tanh(W s        +U h ),
                                                              i−1   j      a           a i−1      a j
                             where W ∈ Rn×n,U ∈ Rn×2n and v ∈ Rn are the weight matrices. Since U h does not
                                       a             a                   a                                             a j
                             depend on i, we can pre-compute it in advance to minimize the computational cost.
                                8 Here, we show the formula of the decoder. The same formula can be used in the encoder by simply
                             ignoring the context vector ci and the related terms.
                                                                                12
                             Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                             A.2    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE MODEL
                             A.2.1    ENCODER
                             In this section, we describe in detail the architecture of the proposed model (RNNsearch) used in the
                             experiments (see Sec. 4–5). From here on, we omit all bias terms in order to increase readability.
                             Themodeltakesasourcesentence of 1-of-K coded word vectors as input
                                                                                               K
                                                                 x=(x ,...,x ), x ∈R x
                                                                         1        Tx     i
                             and outputs a translated sentence of 1-of-K coded word vectors
                                                                 y=(y ,...,y ), y ∈ RKy,
                                                                         1       Ty     i
                             where K and K are the vocabulary sizes of source and target languages, respectively. T and T
                                      x        y                                                                             x       y
                             respectively denote the lengths of source and target sentences.
                             First, the forward states of the bidirectional recurrent neural network (BiRNN) are computed:
                                                       →−     (       →−     →−       →−    →−
                                                        hi = (1− zi)◦ hi−1+ zi◦ hi ,ifi>0
                                                                0                                 , if i = 0
                             where                                                    h             i
                                                            →−            −→        →−  →−    →−
                                                            h =tanh WEx +U r ◦ h
                                                              i                 i          i     i−1
                                                            →−      −→          →− →−     
                                                            z =σ W Ex +U h
                                                              i      z      i      z   i−1
                                                            →−       −→          →− →−
                                                            r =σ W Ex +U h                   .
                                                              i         r    i      r   i−1
                                     m×Kx                                       −→ −→ −→            n×m →− →−      →−        n×n
                             E ∈ R           is the word embedding matrix. W,Wz,Wr ∈ R                   , U, Uz, Ur ∈ R           are
                             weight matrices. m and n are the word embedding dimensionality and the number of hidden units,
                             respectively. σ(·) is as usual a logistic sigmoid function.
                                                    ←−        ←−
                             Thebackwardstates(h1,··· , hT )arecomputedsimilarly. Wesharethewordembeddingmatrix
                                                                  x
                             EbetweentheforwardandbackwardRNNs,unliketheweightmatrices.
                             We concatenate the forward and backward states to to obtain the annotations (h ,h ,··· ,h              ),
                                                                                                                     1   2        Tx
                             where                                              "       #
                                                                                   →−
                                                                          h =      hi                                              (7)
                                                                           i       ←−
                                                                                   hi
                             A.2.2    DECODER
                             Thehiddenstate s of the decoder given the annotations from the encoder is computed by
                                                i
                                                                  s =(1−z )◦s          +z ◦s˜,
                                                                   i         i     i−1     i    i
                             where
                                                          s˜ =tanh(WEy           +U[r ◦s        ] + Cc )
                                                           i                i−1         i   i−1        i
                                                          z =σ(W Ey          +U s       +C c )
                                                           i         z   i−1      z i−1      z i
                                                          r =σ(W Ey          +U s       +C c )
                                                           i         r   i−1      r i−1      r i
                             Eisthewordembeddingmatrix for the target language. W,W ,W ∈ Rn×m, U,U ,U ∈ Rn×n,
                                                                                                z    r                z   r
                             and C,C ,C ∈ Rn×2n are weights. Again, m and n are the word embedding dimensionality
                                       z   r
                             and the number of hidden units, respectively. The initial hidden state s         is computed by s      =
                                       ←−                                                                 0                    0
                             tanh Wsh1 ,whereWs ∈Rn×n.
                             Thecontext vector ci are recomputed at each step by the alignment model:
                                                                               Tx
                                                                         ci =Xαijhj,
                                                                               j=1
                                                                                13
                             Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                                                                 5
                                    Model          Updates (×10 )     Epochs     Hours          GPU          Train NLL      Dev. NLL
                                 RNNenc-30               8.46           6.4       109      TITANBLACK            28.1          53.0
                                 RNNenc-50               6.00           4.5       108      Quadro K-6000         44.0          43.6
                               RNNsearch-30              4.71           3.6       113      TITANBLACK            26.7          47.2
                               RNNsearch-50              2.88           2.2       111      Quadro K-6000         40.7          38.1
                               RNNsearch-50?             6.67           5.0       252      Quadro K-6000         36.7          35.2
                             Table 2: Learning statistics and relevant information. Each update corresponds to updating the
                             parameters once using a single minibatch. One epoch is one pass through the training set. NLL is
                             theaverageconditionallog-probabilitiesofthesentencesineitherthetrainingsetorthedevelopment
                             set. Note that the lengths of the sentences differ.
                             where
                                                                          exp(e )
                                                                α =P             ij
                                                                 ij      Tx exp(e )
                                                                         k=1        ik
                                                                e   =v>tanh(W s           +U h ),
                                                                 ij    a           a i−1      a j
                                                                                                                 0            0
                             and h is the j-th annotation in the source sentence (see Eq. (7)). v          ∈ Rn ,W ∈ Rn×n and
                                    j                                                                   a            a
                             U ∈ Rn0×2n are weight matrices. Note that the model becomes RNN Encoder–Decoder (Cho
                               a                            →−
                             et al., 2014a), if we ﬁx ci to h T .
                                                               x
                             Withthedecoderstates         , the context c andthelastgeneratedwordy          , wedeﬁnetheprobability
                             of a target word y as    i−1               i                               i−1
                                                i
                                                               p(y |s ,y     , c ) ∝exp y>W t ,
                                                                   i  i  i−1   i           i   o i
                             where
                                                                                        	
                                                                             ˜       ˜       >
                                                                ti = max ti,2j−1,ti,2j       j=1,...,l
                                  ˜                                    ˜
                             and t    is the k-th element of a vector t which is computed by
                                   i,k                                 i
                                                                 ˜
                                                                 t =U s       +V Ey        +C c .
                                                                  i    o i−1      o    i−1     o i
                                      K ×l           2l×n          2l×m               2l×2n
                             Wo∈R y ,Uo∈R                 , Vo ∈ R       and Co ∈ R          are weight matrices. This can be under-
                             stood as having a deep output (Pascanu et al., 2014) with a single maxout hidden layer (Goodfellow
                             et al., 2013).
                             A.2.3     MODELSIZE
                             For all the models used in this paper, the size of a hidden layer n is 1000, the word embedding
                             dimensionality m is 620 and the size of the maxout hidden layer in the deep output l is 500. The
                             numberofhiddenunits in the alignment model n0 is 1000.
                             B TRAININGPROCEDURE
                             B.1    PARAMETER INITIALIZATION
                                                                                        ←− ←− ←− →− →−             →−
                             Weinitialized the recurrent weight matrices U,U ,U , U, U , U , U, U              and U as random or-
                                                                                  z   r        z    r        z        r
                             thogonalmatrices. ForWa andUa,weinitializedthembysamplingeachelementfromtheGaussian
                                                                         2
                             distribution of mean 0 and variance 0.001 . All the elements of V and all the bias vectors were ini-
                                                                                                  a
                             tialized to zero. Any other weight matrix was initialized by sampling from the Gaussian distribution
                                                           2
                             of mean 0 and variance 0.01 .
                             B.2    TRAINING
                             We used the stochastic gradient descent (SGD) algorithm. Adadelta (Zeiler, 2012) was used to
                             automatically adapt the learning rate of each parameter ( = 10−6 and ρ = 0.95). We explicitly
                                                                                 14
                           Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2015
                           normalized the L2-norm of the gradient of the cost function each time to be at most a predeﬁned
                           threshold of 1, when the norm was larger than the threshold (Pascanu et al., 2013b). Each SGD
                           update direction was computed with a minibatch of 80 sentences.
                           Ateachupdateourimplementationrequirestimeproportionaltothelengthofthelongestsentencein
                           a minibatch. Hence, to minimize the waste of computation, before every 20-th update, we retrieved
                           1600 sentence pairs, sorted them according to the lengths and split them into 20 minibatches. The
                           training data was shufﬂed once before training and was traversed sequentially in this manner.
                           In Tables 2 we present the statistics related to training all the models used in the experiments.
                           C TRANSLATIONS OF LONG SENTENCES
                             Source          Anadmittingprivilegeistherightofadoctortoadmitapatienttoahospitaloramedicalcentre
                                             to carry out a diagnosis or a procedure, based on his status as a health care worker at a hospital.
                                                     `                               ´
                             Reference       Le privilege d’admission est le droit d’un medecin, en vertu de son statut de membre soignant
                                                   ˆ                                   ˆ                  ´              ´
                                             d’un hopital, d’admettre un patient dans un hopital ou un centre medical aﬁn d’y delivrer un
                                             diagnostic ou un traitement.
                                                      `                              ´                ˆ            `   ˆ
                             RNNenc-50       Unprivilege d’admission est le droit d’un medecin de reconnaıtre un patient a l’hopital ou un
                                                     ´                                                              ´         ´
                                             centre medical d’un diagnostic ou de prendre un diagnostic en fonction de son etat de sante.
                                                      `                               ´                          `     ˆ
                             RNNsearch-50    Un privilege d’admission est le droit d’un medecin d’admettre un patient a un hopital ou un
                                                     ´                                         ´
                                             centre medical pour effectuer un diagnostic ou une procedure, selon son statut de travailleur des
                                                         ´ `  ˆ
                                             soins de sante a l’hopital.
                                                      `                            ´                                   ˆ
                             Google          Un privilege admettre est le droit d’un medecin d’admettre un patient dans un hopital ou un
                                                     ´                                          ´          ´
                             Translate       centre medical pour effectuer un diagnostic ou une procedure, fondee sur sa situation en tant
                                                                         ´         ˆ
                                             que travailleur de soins de sante dans un hopital.
                             Source          This kind of experience is part of Disney’s efforts to ”extend the lifetime of its series and build
                                             newrelationships with audiences via digital platforms that are becoming ever more important,”
                                             he added.
                                                           ´                                                    ´            ´
                             Reference       Ce type d’experience entre dans le cadre des efforts de Disney pour ”etendre la duree de
                                                        ´                                                     ˆ   `
                                             vie de ses series et construire de nouvelles relations avec son public grace a des plateformes
                                                 ´                                                  ´
                                             numeriques qui sont de plus en plus importantes”, a-t-il ajoute.
                                                          ´                                                            ´
                             RNNenc-50       Ce type d’experience fait partie des initiatives du Disney pour ”prolonger la duree de vie de
                                                                ´                                   ´
                                             ses nouvelles et de developper des liens avec les lecteurs numeriques qui deviennent plus com-
                                             plexes.
                                                           ´                                                        ´
                             RNNsearch-50    Ce genre d’experience fait partie des efforts de Disney pour ”prolonger la duree de vie de ses
                                              ´        ´                                                            ´
                                             series et creer de nouvelles relations avec des publics via des plateformes numeriques de plus
                                                                          ´
                                             en plus importantes”, a-t-il ajoute.
                                                           ´                                   ` ´            ´             ´
                             Google          Cegenre d’experience fait partie des efforts de Disney a “etendre la duree de vie de sa serie et
                                                                                                                        ´
                             Translate       construire de nouvelles relations avec le public par le biais des plates-formes numeriques qui
                                                                                         ´
                                             deviennent de plus en plus important”, at-il ajoute.
                             Source          InapressconferenceonThursday,MrBlairstatedthattherewasnothinginthisvideothatmight
                                             constitute a ”reasonable motive” that could lead to criminal charges being brought against the
                                             mayor.
                                                    ´                                   ´                             ´
                             Reference       Enconferencedepresse,jeudi,M.Blairaafﬁrmequ’iln’yavaitriendanscettevideoquipuisse
                                                                                               ´ ˆ
                                             constituer des ”motifs raisonnables” pouvant mener au depot d’une accusation criminelle contre
                                             le maire.
                                                           ´                                                                ´
                             RNNenc-50       Lors de la conference de presse de jeudi, M. Blair a dit qu’il n’y avait rien dans cette video qui
                                                                                                     ˆ
                                             pourrait constituer une ”motivation raisonnable” pouvant entraıner des accusations criminelles
                                                 ´
                                             portees contre le maire.
                                                           ´                              ´   ´                             ´
                             RNNsearch-50    Lorsd’uneconferencedepressejeudi,M.Blairadeclarequ’iln’yavaitriendanscettevideoqui
                                                                                                        `
                                             pourrait constituer un ”motif raisonnable” qui pourrait conduire a des accusations criminelles
                                             contre le maire.
                                                            ´                               ´    ´
                             Google          Lors d’une conference de presse jeudi, M. Blair a declare qu’il n’y avait rien dans cette vido
                                                                                                        `
                             Translate       qui pourrait constituer un ”motif raisonnable” qui pourrait mener a des accusations criminelles
                                             portes contre le maire.
                           Table 3: The translations generated by RNNenc-50 and RNNsearch-50 from long source sentences
                           (30 words or more) selected from the test set. For each source sentence, we also show the gold-
                           standard translation. The translations by Google Translate were made on 27 August 2014.
                                                                           15
