                                              Non-relational question                                   1.0                     CNN+RN
                                              Q: What is the shape of the gray object?                  0.8                     CNN+MLP
                                              A: circle                                                 0.6
                                              Relational question                                       0.4
                                              Q: What is the shape of the object                       action correct0.2
                                              that is furthest from the gray object?
                                Image         A: square                                                Fr0.0
                                                                                                             Non-Rel.   Rel.
                                              Non-relational question
                                              Q: Is the green object on the left or on the right?
                                              A: right
                                              Relational question
                                              Q: How many objects have the shape of the orange object?
                                              A: 3
                                              Non-relational question
                                              Q: Is the yellow object on the top or on the bottom?
                                              A: bottom
                                              Relational question
                                              Q: What is the color of the object that is closest to the blue object?
                                              A: red
                                              Non-relational question
                                              Q: What is the shape of the red object?
                                              A: circle
                                              Relational question
                                              Q: How many objects have the shape of the blue object?
                                              A: 1
                                              Non-relational question
                                              Q: Is the blue object on the top or on the bottom?
                                              A: top
                                              Relational question
                                              Q: What is the color of the object that is closest to the red object?
                                              A: yellow
                       Figure 4: “Sort-of-CLEVR” task: examples and results. The Sort-of-CLEVR example here
                       consists of an image of six objects and two questions – a relational question, and a non-relational
                       question – along with the corresponding answers. The fraction of correctly answered relational
                       questions (inset bar plot) for our model (CNN+RN) is much larger than the comparable MLP
                       based model (CNN+MLP), whereas both models have similar performance levels for non-relational
                       questions.
                                                                                 13
