           Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024
           Experiments using slightly more or fewer lines of instructions or examples seemed to not affect
           overall performance substantially, except for the findings of experiments stated in Section 5.
           E SOCIETAL IMPACT
           As reasoning on code has emerged as a foundational skill underlying many LM’s capability, a po-
           tential future of machine-automated software engineering raises many important questions and has
           important potential ramifications with regards to AI Safety (Gros et al., 2023). It is important to ad-
           dress questions on how to ensure AI-generated code is faithful to human intents and what guardrails
           might be in place when human objectives are misinterpreted by code agents that then carry out the
           task. To observe such problems in a controlled setting and manifest their solutions, we hope SWE-
           bench might serve as a testbed for designing safe, robust measures towards aligned, verifiable, and
           safe AI-driven software engineering.
           F IN-DEPTH ANALYSIS OF SWE-LLAMA GENERATIONS
           In this section, we provide five additional qualitative analyses of generations from both Claude 2
           and SWE-Llamagenerations (Oracle retrieval setting) following the style of Section 5.1.
           Claude 2 qualitative studies can be found in Tables 25 and 26. Tables 27, 28, and 29 are task
           instances that Claude 2 did not address correctly. SWE-Llama qualitative studies are covered across
           Tables 30, 31, 32, 33, 34. For Tables 30, 31, and 32, we present task instances solved correctly
           by SWE-Llama 13b. In Table 33 and 34, we present two task instances where SWE-Llama 13b
           does not address the issue correctly, pointing out a subset of the reasoning and generation skills that
           models may not be adept at enough to accomplish the task at hand.
           Theobservationswemakeacrossthesesectionscorroboratewiththepointsstatedinthemainpaper,
           which is that models tend to struggle with multi-line and multi-file changes, are more adept when
           the required fix is relatively short, and need help with understanding the codebase in an efficient
           manner.
                               31
