                   Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024
                   8  ETHICS STATEMENT
                   SWE-bench is collected entirely from public repositories with licenses that permit software usage
                   that our contributions are in accordance with. Details of the licenses are included in Table 12.
                   During the collection or evaluation processes, we do not collect information about GitHub users,
                   andtheSWE-benchtaskinstancesdonotuseGitHubdatabeyondwhatisofferedviathepublicAPI
                   and website. Our contributions do not involve any human subject participation; we do not perform
                   crowdsourcing or recruit human task workers for any part of SWE-bench, including its collection
                   and evaluation procedures along with the experiments. SWE-bench’s filtering criteria for GitHub
                   repositories based on popularity does not implicitly or explicitly rely on any discriminative or biased
                   heuristics for repository selection. For the dataset release, we plan to open source the SWE-bench
                   task instances, the collection and evaluation infrastructure, the experimental results, the training
                   data used for fine-tuning SWE-Llama models, and the SWE-Llama model weights. Following best
                   practice precedents, we will also put forth ample documentation to describe each component and
                   its use, and we will also put in place convenient communication channels for soliciting feedback to
                   improve SWE-bench. SWE-bench does not put forth any immediately harmful insights. We briefly
                   discuss the potential impact of SWE-bench’s usage in Section E.
                   9  REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
                   For our submission, we have uploaded the entirety of the source code as a zipped file that has been
                   properly anonymized. We have organized the codebase such that separate directories correspond to
                   different contributions within the main paper (i.e. dataset collection, evaluation, open source model
                   inference, SWE-Llama training, etc.). The source code contains inline documentation that details
                   purposeandusageofdifferentpartsofthecodebase. Inaddition, wealsoincludethefullsetof2294
                   SWE-benchtaskinstancesthatcontainsallthecomponentsdiscussedinthemainpaper. Beyondthe
                   documentation in the source code, we include thorough technical details for the collection pipeline
                   and evaluation procedures in Section A.2 and Section A.4 that complements the original details in
                   Section 2 of the main paper. These sections fully cover the logic presented in the code and can
                   be helpful for understanding it. Moving forward, as discussed in the ethics statement, we plan to
                   more formally release SWE-bench to the public as an open source repository with thorough details
                   that describes the benchmark, outlines the code, and details its usage. A major component of SWE-
                   benchisthecollectionframework,whichwillbepartoftheopensourcedcode. Becauseofitseasily
                   maintainable design, as discussed in the main paper, our hope and belief is that SWE-bench should
                   be highly reproducible.
                   10  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
                   We thank Danqi Chen, Tri Dao, Zexuan Zhong, Tianyu Gao, Will Merrill, Mengzhou Xia, Dan
                   Friedman, Adithya Bhaskar, Austin Watkins, Aatmik Gupta, and Richard Zhu for their valuable
                   feedback and advice. We acknowledge support from the National Science Foundation under Grant
                   No. 2239363 and an Oracle Collaborative Research award. Any opinions, findings, conclusions, or
                   recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect
                   the views of the National Science Foundation.
                                                   10
