          ing. Compared to graph neural networks (GNNs), GPIO requires lower com-
          plexity and can efÏciently incorporate global and local information, which
          is also empirically validated through experiments. Furthermore, we propose
          GPIO+forthemultimodalfew-shotclassification that incorporates both im-
          ages and graphs simultaneously. GPIO achieves higher benchmark accuracy
          than GNNs across multiple tasks, including graph classification, node clas-
          sification, and multimodal text classification, while also attaining superior
          AP and AUC in link prediction. Additionally, GPIO+ outperforms GNNs
          in multimodal few-shot classification. Our GPIO(+) can serve as a general
          architecture for handling various modalities and tasks.
          Keywords: Graph Perceiver IO, Graph Neural Network, Multimodality
          1. Introduction
           Humanswhohavegeneral intelligence has the capability to handle multi-
          ple datasets from different source simultaneously. One of the required build-
          ing blocks for general intelligence is multimodal learning for a general per-
          ception, and there has been much interest in multimodal learning. With the
          development of the Transformer [1] and the Vision Transformer (ViT) [2],
          there have been multimodal learning approaches that adopts multiple Trans-
          former encoders for each modality [3], and fuses the each information later
          [4]. Another remarkable algorithms for multimodal learning are the Perceiver
          [5] and its extension, the Perceiver IO [6], general architecture that has struc-
          tured inputs and outputs. Perceiver IO handles various sizes of inputs and
          outputs, and they unify the inputs and outputs structures for diverse types
          of datasets such as images and text. Unified inputs and outputs structures
                          2
