                    bedeterminedbythetaskspecifically. It is noted that the output query array
                    can be used as a pretrained embeddings, or it can be learnable parameters.
                    For graph classification task that requires a single label per graph, we set
                    the output query array size as 1 × D , where D denotes the output query
                                                     q         q
                    array dimension. For node-specific tasks such as node classification and link
                    prediction, we set the output query array shape as M × D where M is the
                                                                        q
                    number of nodes. The simple choice of the output query array is raw nodes
                    features X ∈ RM×C that is the same as the input array. However, we find
                    that the output query array based on the raw node features tends to show
                    poor performance. Appendix 8.2. presents a detailed result. Furthermore,
                    raw node features do not contain any relational information of adjacency
                    matrix. Instead of raw node features, we propose a smoothing based output
                    query array that is smoothed features of raw node features L times [39]. The
                    following Eq. 1 denotes the L times smoothed node features, the output
                    query array of the GPIO,
                                            b   e−1 ee−1L
                                           X= D 2AD 2 X                             (1)
                          e                                                       e
                    where A = A + I denotes a adjacency matrix with self-loop and D  =
                                                                                   ii
                    P e                                   e
                      j=0 Aij denotes node degree matrix of A. SGC [39] removes nonlinear
                    function between GCN layers and collapse repeated multiplication of matrix
                    into L-th power of matrix like Eq. 1 which extracts smoothed features of
                                                   b
                    X. As a result, extracted features X tends to have similar representation to
                    nearby nodes and help to make similar predictions. That is, the SGC incor-
                    porates adjacency matrix into its input to get L-hops neighbor information.
                                                                    b
                    In a similar way, we utilize adjacency matrix to obtain X as an output query
                    array which contain relational information.
                                                    12
