                        is similar to the Transformer. Different from the convolutional neural nets
                        (CNN) [37] or the Vision Transformer (ViT) [38], the Perceiver operates on
                        the individual pixels independently without patches or convolution opera-
                        tions.   However, attention computation is permutation invariant, and the
                        attention-only mechanism is hard to treat the sequence order. To incorpo-
                        rate the order information for sequence and spatial information for images,
                        the Perceiver and the Perceiver IO introduce the learned positional encoding
                        or Fourier-based positional encoding with sinusoid functions.
                        3.3. Perceiver IO and Graph Structured Data
                            The Perceiver IO is a general architecture, and it has high flexibility for
                        input and output structure. From its flexibility and generality, The Perceiver
                        and its variants handle the diverse tasks for image, text, speech, and 3D
                        point clouds.    They extend their works to incorporate the heterogeneous
                        multimodal dataset such as audiovisual sequences, and the Perceiver shows
                        competitive results. However, the application of Perceiver is limited to the
                        non-graph structured dataset, and they do not handle the graph structured
                        dataset that has topological information.
                            Extending the Perceiver to handle the graph structured dataset is non-
                        trivial. First, the Perceiver is a general architecture, and it already shows the
                        competitive results for diverse tasks. Therefore, simple extensions that do
                        not modify the overall model structures are required. Second, the Perceiver
                        receives the flattened inputs, and incorporating the topological information
                        represented by the adjacency matrix into the Perceiver is challenging.
                                                                  9
