                 later erroneous step. We looked into the breakdown    dering task designed to evaluate a model’s linguis-
                 of what percentage of the errors belong to each cat-  tic knowledge—specifically, its understanding of
                 egory when there is an error to be found and the      adjective categories and adherence to the correct
                 model also identifies one of the steps as erroneous.  adjective ordering in English. In this task, models
                   Wefind that the majority of the errors belong       mustchoosethesentencewiththecorrect adjective
                 to the second category. Specifically, for o3-mini     sequence from a pair of English sentences. Current
                 (high) 98.7% of the errors belong to the second       general-purpose models excel at this task, reaching
                 class, for Gemini 2.0 Flash all the errors belong to  nearly 95% accuracy (see Table 9 for Gemini 2.0
                 the second class, for Gemini 2.0 Flash-Lite 94.9%     Flash performance on Hyperbaton task from BBH).
                 and for GPT4o 96.8% of the errors belong to the
                 second class. This highlights a failure mode for the
                 frontier models in that they can identify the correct
                 reasoning steps, but fail to identify the ones that
                 have errors.
                 A.7   Geometric Shapes
                 SVG is a language for drawing shapes. We use             WereplaceHyperbatonwithanoveltaskthatas-
                 two basic commands: 1- M(x,y) corresponding           sesses inductive reasoning in addition to linguistic
                 to moving to the (x,y) coordinate, and 2- L(x,y)      knowledge. This new task involves inducing the
                 corresponding to drawing a line from the current      correct adjective order in a new variant of English,
                 location to (x,y). We use the shape outlines from     given a set of example sentences. Specifically, for
                 GeomVerse (Kazemi et al., 2023a), a dataset of        eachtestsample,wecreateauniqueEnglishvariant
                 geometry questions involving multiple shapes that     by randomly shuffling the standard adjective order
                 share some elements, which are specified as TikZ      and generating 50-250 sentences. Each sentence
                 commandsandconvertthemtoSVG.Wethenask                 contains 1 to 3 adjectives preceding a noun. Mod-
                 the model to identify what shapes will be drawn if    els must then infer the correct adjective order for
                 wevisualize the SVG.                                  this variant and identify all correct sentences from
                   Weconsider two extra axes for difficulty: 1- we     10provided options. A “None of the above” option
                 randomly break some lines segments into multi-        is included as a distractor. We observe that this
                 ple colinear line segments, and 2- we add some        variant already poses a challenge for latest general-
                 extra lines such that they intersect at some points   purpose models. To further increase the difficulty,
                 and those intersections form some shapes (in other    weensurethat the provided sentences only reveal
                 cases, shapes are created using the full line seg-    partial adjective orderings, such as opinion, size,
                 ments and not at their intersection points). We then  shape, color, purpose, age, and material, origin,
                 create four subsets for the task corresponding to     without specifying the relative order of all cate-
                 the cross product of few vs many line breaks and      gories (e.g., whether material precedes or follows
                 intersect vs no intersect.                            age, or whether origin precedes or follows opin-
                   For o3-mini (high), which is the best performing    ion). This requires models to reason with partial
                 model on this task, we observe that the accuracy      information and avoid relying on prior knowledge.
                 for the few breaks subset is 58% while the accuracy
                 for the many breaks subset is 47%; we also observe
                 that the accuracy for the no intersect subset is 72%
                 while for the intersect subset is 33%. This shows
                 that both axes are adding to the difficulty of the
                 task.
                 A.8   Hyperbaton
                 In English, a prescribed order governs the sequence      Weobserve an interesting failure mode in this
                 of multiple adjectives preceding a noun. This or-     task: some models correctly induce partial adjec-
                 der, generally, is: opinion → size → age → shape      tive orderings but rely on prior knowledge of stan-
                 →color → origin → material → purpose. The             dard English order when selecting answers. Con-
                 BBHsuite includes Hyperbaton, an adjective or-        sider the example below.
                                                                  26491
